2012-02-27 00:00:00+06:00
Housewife murdered for dowry, another fighting for life
A housewife succumbed to burn injuries in Naogaon on Friday while another burnt severely in Khagrachhari on Saturday is fighting for life at hospital.

A housewife, who was set on fire allegedly by her husband for dowry, succumbed to her burn injuries at Manda upazila health complex in Naogaon on Friday night after fighting for life for 45 days.

The victim was identified as Shaptami Rani, 22, wife of Nikhil Chandra, 28, of Tantipara in Joypurhat town, reports our Dinajpur correspondent.

Family sources said, Shaptami, daughter of Biswanath Chandra of Prashadpur village in Manda upazila of Naogaon district, was married off with Nikhil Chandra, son of Nibaron Chandra, about four years ago.

Shaptami was often tortured by the husband and his family members as her parents could not meet their demand for dowry.

On the fateful night of January 11, Nikhil and his parents asked her to bring money from her parents. As she refused, they poured kerosene on her person and set her ablaze.

Hearing her screams, neighbours rushed to the spot and took her to Sadar Hospital in critical condition.

Later, she was shifted to Manda upazila health complex where she died at about 9pm on Friday.

Victim's father filed a case with Joypurhat police station at night.

Police arrested Nikhil's father Nibaran Chandra and mother Laxmi Rani early Saturday in this connection.

Nikhil went into hiding immediately after the incident.

In Khagrachhari, a teenage housewife was set ablaze by her husband for dowry on Saturday evening at Pailotfarm in Panchhari upazila, reports our correspondent.

Victim Rahima Bagum, 18, wife of Mohammad Jamal Hossain, is now fighting for life with severe burn injuries at Khagrachhari Adhunik Sadar Hospital.

At the hospital, Rahima told this correspondent that her husband Jamal locked in an altercation with her around 05:30pm on Saturday as she refused to ask her parents to pay Tk 50,000 as dowry. At one stage, Jamal poured kerosene over her person and set her on fire with the help of her sister-in-law Jahanara.

Rahima was rushed to Panchhari upazila health complex. The duty doctor there referred her to Khagrachhari Adhunik Sadar Hospital yesterday noon as her condition became critical.

Residential Medical Officer at Panchhari upazila health complex Dr. Bidorshi Chakma told this correspondent that 40 percent of Rahima's body sustained severe burn.

Contacted, officer in-charge of Panchhari police station Alamgir Hossain said police arrested Jamal and Jahanara after the victim's mother, Rufia Bagum, filed a case in this regard.