2012-01-13 00:00:00+06:00
Two women brutally tortured for dowry
Two women have been brutally tortured allegedly by their husbands and in-laws for dowry in Panchagarh and Thakurgaon districts.

In Panchagarh, Laily Begum, wife of Md Manik of Tulardanga in Panchagarh municipality, was tortured by her husband and in-laws on December 27 in 2011 as she refused to bring Tk one lakh in dowry from her parents. They shaved Laily's head and forced her to leave the house, locals said.

The victim alleged that she along with her father Habibur Rahman of Kamatpara area of the municipality went to Sadar police station to file a case against her husband and in-laws two days after the incident, but police refused to accept the case.

When asked, Officer in-charge Humayun Kabir refuted the allegation, saying that none came to file such case with the police station.

On January 9, Laily filed a case with Panchagarh Chief Judicial Magistrate's Court, accusing her husband Manik, his elder brother Khokon, father in-law Ramizuddin, mother in-law Rowshan and sister in-law Lucky.

Chief Judicial Magistrate Abu Monsur Mohammad Ziaul Haque issued arrest warrants against the accused the same day. None of the accused was arrested as of filing of this report as 5:00pm yesterday.

Contacted, OC Humayun Kabir said they have not yet received arrest warrants from the court. “Once we get warrants for arrest of the accused, we shall go for action,” the OC added.

In the case statement, Laily alleged that Md Manik married her on February 11 in 2011. After a few months, Manik and his family members demanded Tk one lakh in dowry from her parents. “They often tortured me physically and mentally for my failure in bringing the money from my poor parents,” she stated in the statement.

In Thakurgaon, Jasmin Begum, 30, wife of Abul Kalam of Chit Chilarang village in Sadar upazila, sustained serious burn injuries allegedly as her dowry-greedy husband and in-laws poured hot water on her on Tuesday.

Locals said Abul Kalam has been demanded Tk 50,000 in dowry from her parents for the last several months.

When Jasmin was cooking rice at the kitchen at around 8:00pm, Kalam returned home and locked in an altercation with her wife over the issue. After a few minutes, Jasmin's mother in law, and sister-in-law joined the feud.

At one stage, they poured hot water on Jasmin. Hearing screams, neighbours rushed to the house and took her to Thakurgaon Sadar Hospital.

Following a case filed by Jasmin with Thakurgoan Sadar Police Station on Wednesday, police arrested her husband Kalam, his father Sona Mia and sister-in-law Banu Akhter.

Meanwhile, a housewife was killed allegedly by her husband over a family feud at Joytul village in Kahalu upazila of Bogra on Wednesday Morning, reports UNB.

The deceased was identified as Halima, 35, wife of Abdur Rashid of the village.

Police quoted local people as saying that Rashid picked up a quarrel with Halima over a trifling matter at around 6:00am and at one stage, he beat up Halima mercilessly, leaving her dead on the spot.