2015-02-09 05:30:00+06:00
Arson, bomb attack on vehicles continue in Bangladesh
Two more petrol bomb victims died of their injuries yesterday raising the death toll to 68 since the political violence sparked early last month.

Abul Kalam Azad, 40, who was injured in a petrol bomb attack in Gaibandha Friday night, died at Rangpur Medical College Hospital yesterday afternoon.

Truck helper Hasib, 30, who was injured in a similar attack Saturday night in Bogra, died early yesterday at Shaheed Ziaur Rahman Medical College Hospital.

Criminals hurled at least three crude bombs at India-Bangladesh train Maitree Express in Ishwardi yesterday afternoon when it was heading towards Dhaka from Kolkata. None was hurt.

Meanwhile, Gaibandha police filed a case on Saturday against 90 leaders and activists of the 20-party alliance in connection with the petrol bomb attack on a bus on Friday night that killed eight people and critically injured 14 others.

Police have so far arrested 11 people in this connection, reports our correspondent.

At least 11 vehicles were set ablaze across the country yesterday, according to fire service and police officials.

In Dhaka, eight people were injured in three separate bomb attacks in Shaheednagar, TSC and Matshya Bhaban areas.

Besides, two alleged blockaders sustained bullet injuries in police fire when they attempted to hurl bombs at a police vehicle in Jatrabari. In a similar incident, another person got shot in the leg in Shaheed Minar area last night.

An Ansar member was injured in a bomb attack in Uttara.

Rab-1 claimed that they recovered a time bomb at Cherag Ali of Tongi yesterday and defused the device.

In Comilla, two Jamaat activists sustained bullet injuries and a police officer was injured in a gunfight between them at Adra union of Langolkot upazila early yesterday.

In Khulna, police arrested five Shibir men with four petrol bombs at the city's Alia Madrasa dormitory in Rupsha area early yesterday.

Alleged blockaders hurled a crude bomb at the book fair in the city's Boyra area Saturday night leaving one person injured.

In Narayanganj, police arrested a youth with five petrol bombs in Siddhirganj area.

In Chittagong, a mob caught a person who was allegedly throwing a homemade bomb and beat him up in the city's Gool Pahar area yesterday afternoon.

Police recovered 10 petrol bombs from the city's Agrabad CGS Colony. They arrested 16 BNP-Jamaat men and a ward councillor at the city and other upazilas of Chittagong yesterday.

In Noakhali, a trader was injured in a petrol bomb attack in the town and a crude bomb blew off the roof of the witnesses' shed at the District Judge Court.

In Feni, a truck helper and a lorry driver sustained burn injuries in separate petrol bomb attacks at Silonia Bazar of Daganbhuiyan upazila and in Kazir Dhighi area of Feni.

A truck was torched in Senbagh yesterday and alleged blockaders also set fire to a bus at Pachgachiya Bazar Saturday night.

In Tangail, Rab recovered five petrol bombs from the home of a former Chhatra Dal activist at Sakhipur upazila early yesterday.

In Satkhira, police arrested at least 44 people including district Jamaat Ameer Khalek Mandal.

In Dinajpur, alleged blockaders burnt a lorry and beat up the driver and the helper in Amtoli area of Chirirbandar upazila early yesterday.

They also attacked an auto-rickshaw with a petrol bomb and torched a battery run three-wheeler in Baniapara of Biral on Saturday night.