2010-06-09 00:00:00+06:00
Dowry death




ON June 3rd, The Daily Star article "A wife's darkest hour" chronicled a wife's brutal murder at the hands of her husband for her inability to bring in the dowry which was negotiated during the marriage proposal. She was set on fire by her greedy husband. Such monstrous acts and gruesome murders are being carried out with impunity in our country.

Many Asian countries, including Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Nepal, follow the practice of dowry. From the moment a baby girl is born, especially in a low-income family, worries start that one day a dowry demand will have to be met. Society often undermines the role of a woman. The social customs in Bangladesh are such that in the 21st century a husband consumed by greed can brutally murder his wife when her family cannot meet the dowry demand.

The Daily Star article's author emphasised that if girls got higher education it would make them assertive and independent. Undoubtedly getting an education will enhance women empowerment. Will that eliminate the dowry practice?

The dowry system has been in place for centuries. It is essentially a contract between the father of the bride and the father of the groom before a marriage takes place. Marriage is a social contract between a man and a woman where they promise in the name of God to love and honour one another. By taking dowry one undermines the entire sanctity of the institution of marriage.

Accepting and demanding a dowry has become an accepted norm in our society. From upper-class to middle-class, and the poor people in villages, dowry is given to the groom's family. It determines a bride's worth to that particular family. In the villages, if a woman is not pretty enough, the demand seems to be higher. In many of the families the dowry demand causes an unusual and enormous burden. Poor families often become destitute in providing a dowry for the daughter in order to marry her off.

We read and hear about horrific dowry-related deaths in Bangladesh. Other than greed, poverty also plays a big role in accepting a dowry payment. Some people might argue that for a poor family dowry is a means to an end.

What troubles me is that when a bride's family is unable to pay the agreed upon amount the bride becomes a victim of abuse, torture and, in some cases, faces death. Unusual cruelty is bestowed upon them, from burning of their faces with acid to heavy beating, gang rape and other unimaginable mental and psychological punishment. This is happening today in Bangladesh.

Why is anything not being done about it? Newspapers and other media agencies are reporting dowry deaths. The public is well aware of it. But the public scrutiny is not strong enough to have the dowry system totally abolished. In 1980, our government passed the dowry prohibition law by stating that acceptance of dowry was illegal. This law is not followed in practice.

It is well documented that since the independence of Bangladesh the dowry problem has become more acute. Despite the passing of such laws dowry related violence has increased in Bangladesh. There is an unwritten custom where a new bride from all kinds of families and backgrounds will bring with her money, goods such as furniture, watch, motorbike, ornaments or property for her husband.

The ironic thing is that the dowry-related deaths are caused by the people -- their husbands and in-laws -- who are supposed to protect them after the marriage. Dowry deaths are nothing short of savagery. It again comes down to our society being patriarchal, where women are devalued even when we are standing on the threshold of modernisation and claim to live in a civilised world.

Sometimes a dowry agreement has to be fulfilled because that particular family's honour and social position are at stake. Dowry equals wealth, and it becomes a status symbol. For an uneducated girl a dowry payment can be up to Tk 20,000 but an educated girl often has to bring a much higher dowry to get the right bridegroom.

This is undoubtedly a disgraceful custom. Dissatisfied families inflict enormous pain and suffering on the bride. Sometimes such dissatisfaction motivates them to murder the bride. In 2004, a bride was burnt to death on the twenty-second day of her marriage in Chapainawabganj.

In order to eradicate such social evil the families with marriageable daughters have to band together. The girls need to be educated and self-confident so that they do not feel like a commodity that is negotiated and contracted with the grooms' family. The law should be strictly enforced.

Media can play a pivotal role here by keeping the pressure on. Dowry-related violence should be widely reported. Being pro-active is the key to enforcing this law. New legislation making women's education compulsory should be supported. We need to also increase our level of social awareness to rid our society of such an archaic practice. The subtle form of discrimination against women has to stop.

Zeenat Khan is a freelance writer based in the United States.