2017-02-28 00:00:00+06:00
Dowry victim schoolgirl fighting for life
Brutal torture by dowry-greedy in-laws has turned the life of a bright schoolgirl hell.

The victim, Habiba Khatun, 16, daughter of Hafizur Rahman of Dakkhin Kalitola in Naogaon municipality, is now battling for her life at the bed of Naogaon General Hospital.

She secured GPA-5 in her PSC and JSC and was to attend SSC examinations from PM Girls' High School in Naogaon as a science group candidate this year, but could not, said the father.

Now the girl can hardly move even on the bed. Family members feed her through nose with a pipe.

Family members said HSC student Tamvi Hasan Ovi, son of Shamsuzzoha Khan of Dakkhin Kalitola, developed an affair with the girl who eloped and married the boy on August 23 last year.

"Then my daughter lived in her in-laws' house but shortly afterwards, her parents-in-law started torturing her demanding Tk 2 lakh as dowry. But I live by working as a home tutor and could not arrange the money," said the father.

Later on November 30 last year, Habiba's parents were informed that she tried to commit suicide. They tried to meet their daughter that day, but the in-laws did not allow them.

After six days, Habiba's parents found her at the house of a relative of her husband in Rajshahi. "We admitted her to Rajshahi Medical College Hospital (RMCH) where she stayed in life support for 16 days," said the father.

"Habiba also received treatment at the burn unit of RMCH. She had severe head injuries and two of her teeth were lost due to brutal torture at her in-laws' house.

"We took her home in Naogaon from RMCH. But she was admitted to Naogaon General Hospital on February 24 as her condition was deteriorating.

"Dr Arshad Hossain of the hospital said my daughter needs to be taken to Dhaka immediately for proper treatment," said Habiba's father.

"The girl's father filed a case with Naogaon Sadar Police Station on February 6 accusing Ovi and his parents. Police have already arrested Ovi and his father and trying to arrest Ovi's mother who has gone into hiding," said Md Tariqul Islam, officer in charge of Naogaon Sadar Police Station.

“The dowry-greedy in-laws have destroyed the life of my underage daughter,” said Safura Begum, mother of the victim girl, who is second among three siblings.

Marriage registrar Rafiqul Islam who administered the marriage of Habiba and Ovi, claimed that the bride and groom were adult as per the birth certificates he got from them.