2016-11-07 00:00:00+06:00
Her body burnt for dowry
Her in-laws had been torturing her in every way possible in pressurising her into getting dowry from her family. With rage over failed attempts they at last inflicted burns on her on Thursday.

The 24-year-old victim, Radharani Chowhan seemed to have stopped talking as The Daily Star correspondent visited her at Mymensingh Medical College Hospital (MMCH) where she has been undergoing treatment.

Adnan Kaiser, register of the burn and surgery department of the hospital, yesterday said she was out of danger and was recovering.

Daughter of late Harilal Chowhan, of Kacharipara in Nalitabari upazila of Sherpur district, Radha married Arun Chowhan, son of Sreeprasad Chowhan of Haluaghat upazila in Mymensingh, nearly six years ago.

About one and a half years into the marriage, Radha's in-laws began pressing her to bring Tk 1 lakh dowry from her parents. They also persuaded Arun, an employee of a clothing shop, to put pressure on Radha for realising dowry, according to her family.

As she refused to oblige them, saying that her only brother didn't have the capacity to give the dowry, the in-laws increased both mental and physical torture.

In recent months, the torture mounted to its peak. On several occasions, she was beaten up. About a week ago, Radha was driven out of the house, said her elder brother Sanjib Chowhan.

Neighbours then gave her shelter, and as things calmed down they told her to go back to her in-laws' house.

The in-laws on Thursday again engaged in an altercation with her over the same issue. At one stage, Arun's father Sreeprasad poured boiling curry, which she was cooking at the time, on her face, Sanjib said.

Hearing Radha scream, people from the neighbourhood rushed to the spot and took her to Haluaghat Upazila Health Complex.

She was immediately shifted to the MMCH as her condition was critical, Sanjib said, adding that Arun himself took her to Mymensingh but after her admission to the hospital, he fled.

“We fulfilled all demands [of Radha's in-laws] during their marriage, but now we have no ability,” said Radha's cousin Rajkumar Sarker.

Her mother Budia Chowhan said she wants exemplary punishment to everyone who tortured her daughter.

Nearly seven percent of Radha's body including face, neck and the right hand were burnt, said Adnan, of the surgery department of the MMCH.

Meanwhile, Sanjib lodged a case with Haluaghat Police Station against Arun's father Sreeprasad, mother Joysna Chowhan and younger brother Barun Chowhan.

Police arrested Sreeprasad and Joysna at their house yesterday morning, said Sub-inspector Sanwar Hossain. The arrestees were then produced before a Mymensingh court that sent them to jail.