2016-10-25 00:00:00+06:00
In-laws' brutality for dowry
A housewife and her infant daughter were confined to a locked room for five days without food by her husband and his mother at Khutamara village under Jaldhaka upazila of the district.

During the five days, the woman was allegedly made to starve while her kid lived on breast milk, which also dried up at one stage.

Dimla upazila nirbahi officer (UNO) rescued them yesterday after hearing of the matter from some local people.

The victim is Parvin Aktar, 20, daughter of Mahfuzar Rahman of the village.

Victim's mother Kobita Begum said her daughter was married to Rokonuzzaman, 28, son of Abdul Hye of the village in 2014, and they have a one-year-old daughter.

As per demand of bridegroom's family, Parvin's family gave Tk 2 lakh as dowry, along with a refrigerator, bed, a steel almirah and a milking cow.

Parvin said, “A few days after the marriage, my husband started putting pressure on me to bring Tk 1 lakh from my father for doing business.”

As she refused, Rokonuzzaman and his family members started torturing her, she added.

After the birth of their daughter, their torture increased further, which she bore silently for the sake of her daughter, Parvin said.

“At one time, my husband entered into a love affair with a girl of a neighbouring village to inflict mental torture on me. His mother Monowara Begum supported him, though I

objected against the illicit afair and vowed to resist it by any means,” she said.

Five days ago, Rokunuzzaman and his mother confined Parvin and her daughter to a locked room, said locals.

“On that night, my husband went to Dhaka with his lover and started living there in a relative's rented house passing as a married couple. My confinement continued as my husband's mother feared that if I was freed I would file a case against my husband for marrying again without my consent,” Parvin said.

Learning of the matter from some local youths, Jaldhaka UNO Rasedul Huq Prodhan directed the Khutamara Union Parishad (UP) chairman and village police to rescue them, but they failed.

The UNO along with police and UP officials went to the spot yesterday and found Parvin in confinement. He broke the lock and freed Parvin and her child. They looked for Rokonuzzaman's family members but they had fled.

“I rescued the housewife and her minor daughter, who were very weak, and sent them to Dimla Upazila Health Complex,” the UNO said, adding that the culprits must be brought to book.

Officer-in-Charge (investigation) of Jaldhaka Police Station Mofiz uddin said the victim's family is preparing to file a complaint with the police station.