2017-01-23 15:48:50+06:00
Dowry case filed against cricketer Sunny
Yet another lawsuit has been filed against Arafat Sunny by the woman who claims to be his wife – this time alleging that the national cricketer demanded Tk 20 lakh dowry.

Nasrin Sultana, whose previous lawsuit under Information and Communication Technology Act (ICT Act) put Sunny behind bars, filed the lawsuit this afternoon.

After hearing the case complaint, Dhaka Metropolitan Magistrate MD Raihan Ul Islam summoned the cricketer to appear before it on April 5 for hearing.

Nasrin alleged, she and Sunny were married on December 4, 2014. However, just after six months into the marriage, Sunny on July 29, 2015 demanded Tk 20 lakh in dowry.

Denied, Sunny allegedly verbally assaulted Nasrin and left her. Sunny also refused to provide anything for Nasrin, the case statement said.

SUNNY DENIES ALLEGATIONS IN REMAND

During remand today, Arafat Sunny denied all allegations placed against him and claimed he did not send Nasrin Sultana any photos, said Md Yahia, investigation officer of the case filed under ICT act.

“However, Sunny admitted that he knew the woman and they were friends once. Also, Sunny gave other information which the police will verify,” the investigation officer told The Daily Star.

Meanwhile, according to him, police had already seized the mobile phone of the plaintiff and sent it for probe.

After remand, Sunny will be produced at the court tomorrow.

MARRIAGE CERTIFICATE DEEMED FAKE

There is no marriage registrar's office in the location, 20/B Meradia in Dhaka’s Khilgaon area, mentioned in the marriage certificate that the plaintiff earlier produced before the court as evidence of her claim.

According to the certificate, marriage registrar (Kazi) Anwar Hossain registered the marriage of Sunny and Nasrin but it was found that there is no marriage registrar of such name in the area.

Md Salim Ullah Khan, the designated marriage registrar of Meradia area, told The Daily Star that he never had any office in the aforementioned addressed.

“There is now a butcher shop there,” he added.

Seeing a copy of the marriage certificate, he said it was not prepared by him, adding that it looked like a fake one.

However, there is a marriage registrar named Anwar Hossain in Goran area.

Talking to the Daily Star, he said he did not register any marriage of cricketer Arafat Sunny and also termed the certificate a fake one.

Contacted, the investigation officer, Yahiya, told The Daily Star that they are yet to get any copy of the marriage certificate.

“We want a copy from the plaintiff and will also verify the marriage certificate after receiving a copy,” he added.

ALLEGATIONS FALSE: SUNNY’S BROTHER

Arafat Sunny’s brother Faysal Rana alleged that false and motivated allegations have been brought against his brother in a bid to tarnish his image and destroy his career.

“Someone is trying to put him (Sunny) in a trap by bringing false and motivated allegations,” Rana told The Daily Star.

Referring to the dowry case, Rana said, “There is no question of demanding dowry from the woman, even we are not familiar with her.”

Responding to a query, Rana said she (the woman) might be one of his fans.