2013-03-17 02:06:29+06:00
53pc women victim of domestic violence
Around 53 percent of women are victims of domestic violence in the country, while 30 percent of women think that husbands have the "right" to inflict physical violence upon their wives, speakers told a roundtable in the capital yesterday.

Because of stigma and lack of security, victims often do not inform law enforcers about the violence inflicted by their husbands, they said.

The roundtable discussion titled "Domestic Violence (Prevention and Protection) Act 2010: Current Context of Domestic Violence and Future Actions" was jointly organised by Plan Bangladeh and Prothom Alo at the latter's office.

Despite formulation of the act to prevent domestic violence, necessary rules and regulations have not been made yet to implement it properly, they said.

Training for enforcement officers, police and other stakeholders is also needed for its proper implementation, they added.

Law Commission Chairman-in-Charge Dr M Shah Alam said, "The act is a comprehensive one, and we should not shy away from implementation because specified rules haven't been made yet."

National Human Rights Commission Chairman Prof Mizanur Rahman emphasised transparency and honesty of the officials concerned while dealing the domestic violence cases.

Bangladesh National Women Lawyers Association (BNWLA) Executive Director Advocate Salma Ali said violence against women primarily occurs because of patriarchal mindset of people. The mindset can be changed through proper counselling and social awareness campaigns.

Manusher Jonno Foundation Executive Director Shaheen Anam said it is encouraging to know that victims can avail compensation and they cannot be evicted by their husbands or in-laws under the act.

Awareness needs to be raised among people to make the law socially acceptable and to encourage victims to register their complaints, she said.

Director General of the Directorate of Women Affairs Mohammad Ashraf Hossain said the directorate would introduce documentaries as a tool to facilitate dialogue among people in urban and rural areas.

"We will have discussions in ten schools as a pilot endeavour to sensitize students on this issue. Rules of the act will also soon be set and established," he added.