2014-01-27 15:54:13+06:00
Kishoreganj Sonali Bank burglary: Manager among 16 quizzed
Robbers took away Tk 16.40 crore by digging a tunnel into the bank's vault in Isa Khan Road of Rathkhola area in the district town. Star file photo

A total of 16 people including, the manager of a Sonali Bank branch in Kishoreganj where a robbery took place Saturday, were quizzed today.

Of them, 12 are bank officials while the rest are local people.

Meanwhile, three separate probe bodies were formed today for investigating the robbery that was discovered yesterday afternoon.

Robbers took away Tk 16.40 crore by digging a tunnel into the bank's vault in Isa Khan Road of Rathkhola area in the district town.

So far, no one was arrested in connection with the robbery.

Kishoreganj Model police took the 16 people this morning to their police station for interrogation, reports our Kishoreganj correspondent.

The people have been taken to the police station so that law enforcers could get primary information on the incident, said Abdul Malek, officer-in-charge of Kishoreganj Model Police Station.

SM Mahfuzul Haque Nuruzzaman, deputy inspector general of police (Dhaka Range), went to visit the branch of Sonali Bank at Isa Khan Road in Rathkhola area of the district town.

In the meantime, members of Criminal Investigation Department (CID) today found masks and caps in the room where the vault was kept.

The CID members collected those for DNA test.

Two bank officials yesterday discovered the tunnel when they entered the second cell of the bank's vault to get money for transactions.

The tunnel was dug to the vault from a nearby building only 20 yards away from the bank. A narrow alley separates the bank and the building. The policemen stationed at the bank were utterly clueless about the tunnel.

The robbery might have taken place between Friday and Saturday, as the second cell of the vault was checked the last time on Thursday.

Eight policemen stationed at the bank were suspended for negligence in duty last night.