2016-10-18 00:00:00+06:00
Online abuse
In this technology-mediated world, it is our children who are being mostly attached to all the distractions the social media has to offer. It is rapidly increasing their vulnerability towards online sexual abuse in Bangladesh. It is a concept to be developed if not new, that our children do require enhanced protection and guidance creating a shield for them against online sexual abuse they might have been offended with.

Bangladeshi school students are more likely to adhere to peer pressure in using internet and hence getting exploited online. A survey was conducted by Telenor Group which revealed that among 1510 children, 49% of the children have been subject to cyber bullying. The concern of cyber security has been raised due to the increase in the internet use by the children between 12-18 years of age that led to addiction to most of them.

Further, the age permitted for using social media by the children in most of the cases is 13 years and above; however, this does not reduce their vulnerability from online sexual abuse of children who are defined to be any person under the age of eighteen.

The laws governing child rights has not yet dealt with online sexual abuse of children. However, Section 89 (1) (f) of the Children Act, 2013, passed in consistent with the United Nations Convention for the Rights of the Child (CRC) 1989 laid down the matters concerning child sexual abuse and harassment which could be extended towards online abuse and can be given legal effect to the raised concern. Hence issues are raised regarding the applicability of the laws or requirement of amending the existing laws.

Apart from the national legal framework, the national human rights organisations could also strengthen their focus on providing protection to the children from online sexual abuse in social media.

It may be either as child pornography, sexual exploitation or cyber bullying that had been long addressed and discussed in our society after the perpetrators have been highly influenced by the advancement of technology. But there had been so minimal research on how today's children are being more readily vulnerable via using social media through which the perpetrators have gained greater access towards the children. The limitation for such research may be lack of records of data and reports of such online sexual abuse and fear of the child victims form the perpetrators.

The reasons of online child sexual abuse could be either from the unwarranted or insecure use of internet or as any form of distraction or entertainment out of peer pressure. However, the prevention and combat of online child sexual abuse in social media has to begin from home ensuring the children being guaranteed with proper guidance and enhanced supervision by their guardian.

Thus the basic duty of protecting children against sexual abuse remains with the parents and trustworthy guardians of the children who would have to establish and create an amiable relationship with their children and teach them how to protect themselves and act towards their safeguard.The current legal framework regarding protection to our children could see light towards success only if such consciousness could be raised in the families of our society who would be the first to be acquainted with such victimisation of their children.

............................................................................

The writer is an Advocate, Chittagong Judge's Court, Chittagong.