2015-12-31 00:00:00+06:00
Rewind 2015
Freethinkers In Danger

The photo of bleeding Banya and the lifeless body of her husband will keep haunting freethinking writers and online activists and critics of religious bigotry in years to come. The hacking of Avijit in February was followed by the killings of three other secularist bloggers -- Niloy Chowdhury Neel in August, Oyasiqur Rahman in March and Ananta Bijoy Das in May. On October 30, in apparent synchronised attacks on publishers of Avijit, unknown assailants killed Faisal Arefin Dipan of Jagriti Prokashani and critically injured Shuddhoswar's Ahmedur Rashid Tutul.



IN THE NAME OF POLITICS

In January-March, numerous petrol and crude bombs went off, public transports came under attacks and innocent citizens were burned to death.

It was during the opposition blockade on top of shutdowns. At least 95 died since January 5, the day the 20-party alliance announced the blockade and numerous other people suffered injuries. Another 45 got killed in “shootouts” with law enforcement agencies. Half the shootout victims were allegedly involved in arson attacks.

War Criminals Executed

Bangladesh on seven summit





LBA, REALITY NOW

After dillydallying for 41 years, the Indian Parliament finally passed the Land Boundary Agreement (LBA) Bill on May 7, 2015, enabling exchange of enclaves. In the photo, two men in their 90s in Banshpachai enclave of Lalmonirhat embrace on the eve of the exchange of enclaves between Bangladesh and India. The two neighbours were not on talking terms for 30 years over a dispute on a piece of land. The exchange of enclaves put an end to their longstanding feud.

Rise of terror

Some vested quarters are out to destroy the religious and sectarian harmony in Bangladesh. Surely suspicion falls on Islamist militants but nobody is saying exactly which group is responsible for all this.

The blasts at Shia gathering in Old Dhaka, Kantaji Mandir and ISKCON temple in Dinajpur and an Ahmadiyya mosque in Rajshahi were enough to press the panic button. Unfortunately, there are more on the list. A Pabna pastor survived an attempt to slit his throat. A leader of Baha'i community was shot in Rangpur. An Italian pastor came under gun attack in Dinajpur. Armed attack on people in prayers at a Shia mosque in Bogra left the muezzin dead and three others injured. Bomb attacks on two Sunni mosques inside a well-fortified navy area in Chittagong left six injured. Over three dozen Christian religious leaders, including a Bishop, received death threats via SMS.

Champions of the Earth

Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina received UN's highest environmental accolade, Champions of the Earth, in recognition of Bangladesh's far-reaching initiatives to address climate change. The United Nations Environment Programme and the International Telecommunication Union, a specialised UN agency responsible for issues on Information and Communication Technologies, conferred the awards on the Prime Minister during the 70th Session of the UN General Assembly.

BRIDGE OF HOPE

It's a dream-come-true moment. Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina inaugurated the much-awaited construction of Padma bridge which will shorten travel time between the capital and the southern region, giving a major boost to trade and economic activities in the country.

Cruelty against Children

Following gruesome murders of three children, NGOs, law enforcers, rights organisations and international organisations expressed serious concern over child abuse in Bangladesh.

Samiul Alam Rajon, 13, was beaten to death in Sylhet; twelve-year-old Rakib was tortured to death in Khulna, as two men inserted a high-pressure air pump nozzle into his rectum; and 10-year-old Rabiul was beaten to death for “stealing fish” in Barguna.Besides, the body of a minor boy, aged around eight to nine years, was found in an abandoned travel bag in front of Dhaka Medical College Hospital.