2009-05-30 00:00:00+06:00
Patuakhali coastal forests depleting as timber looting goes unabated




Reserve forests in coastal areas of Patuakhali, especially in Kalapara and Galachipa upazilas, are gradually disappearing as organised gangs are stealing away timber allegedly in connivance with a section of forest department staff and law enforcers.

Besides, a large number of trees are dying due to unknown diseases allegedly caused by deposition of sand.

Every night, scores of valuable trees like sundari, kewra, garan and karai from forests in Fatrarban, Char Gongamoti, Sonar Char, Nishan Baria and Kochopkhali are loaded in trawlers and sent to different areas including Dhaka and Chittagong, sources said.

Some of the trees are sold to nearby sawmills.

Forest officials sometimes recover stolen timber and arrest culprits.

Terming it 'eyewash', locals said it is possible to get 'permission' to cut trees in the forest for the whole day just by giving Tk 500 to the forest staff.

Forest officials, however, denied allowing illegal timber trading in exchange of money.

“We recovered about 500 cft sundari timber from three trawlers on the Kalagachia River on February 17 last and arrested 10 people,” said an official of Patuakhali Forest Department.

“We are trying our best to protect the forest resources from thieves. But we cannot conduct frequent drives for want of speedy water vessels,” said Rabiul Haque, beat officer of Mohipur range office under Patuakhali Forest Department.

Meanwhile, thousands of timber trees died of unknown diseases in Char Gongamoti, Kuakata, Khajura, Lamnur Char and Kawar Char under Kalapara upazila during the last several years, said forest officials and locals.

Trees are dying in large scale now, local people said.

The possible cause of the death of a large number of trees is that their roots cannot suck sweet water two to three feet layer of sand has deposited in the beach areas, said a few forest officials.

Excessive deposition of sand, carried by tidal waves, is harmful for mangrove forest, they said, adding that the forest can be saved if the layer of sand is removed but it is a costly process.

Several other officials, however, said there could be other reasons behind death of a large number of trees.

During a recent visit to Kuakata sea beach, this correspondent saw hundreds of dead trees.

Trees start withering four to five months after their roots are covered with sand, said Abdul Halim, 45, a farmer of Char Gongamoti.