2013-04-30 00:31:35+06:00
Jubo League man looting neighbour's trees
Local Jubo League activist Ruhul Kuddus sits on a log, after having forcibly felled several trees of the house of his neighbour at Uttar Subidkhali village in Mirzaganj upazila under Patuakhali district on Sunday. PHOTO: STAR

A Jubo League man has continued felling trees on a neighbour's homestead at Uttar Subidkhali village in Mirzaganj upazila under the district since Wednesday.

Ten to twelve labourers employed by Ruhul Kuddus, member of Mirzaganj upazila unit of Jubo League, have already cut down and removed trees worth over Tk 3 lakh from the house, said Jahanara Begum, wife of house owner Mannan Mridha.

Jahanara filed a case with the Judicial Magistrate's Court on Sunday and the court asked the headmaster of Rahman Ishaq Pilot High School in the upazila town to inquire into the matter as police did not receive the case in this regard.

A group of journalists from Patuakhali town visited the spot on Sunday noon and found 10/12 labourers cutting trees in Mannan Mridha's house as per direction of Ruhul Kuddus.

Jahanara Begum said, "My husband, a health department employee, bought the 0.12 acres of land 30 years ago from Nur Mohammad Howlader, father of Ruhul Kuddus. Later we planted different species of trees there.

"On April 6, police sent my husband to jail in a case. On Wednesday, a gang led by Ruhul Kuddus started forcibly cutting trees including raintree, mahogany and chambol. They have already looted trees worth over Tk 3 lakh.

"I went to the police station to file a case regarding the matter but police did not receive it. I also informed local UP Chairman Sultan Ahmed of the matter but in vain. Sultan Ahmed is working against us as my husband supported another candidate during the last UP election," Jahanara said.

Neighbours Eunus Howladar and Osman Gazi said Mannan Mridha bought the land from Nur Mohammad Howladar long ago and afterwards Mannan planted the trees on the land.

When contacted, Ruhul Kuddus said, "I am cutting trees on my father's land. My father did not sell the land. Mannan occupied the land forcibly."

Abir Ahmed, officer in charge of Mirzaganj police station, said, "I could not receive the case as the local UP chairman informed me that owner of the land cut trees."