2013-04-09 00:12:32+06:00
Alim committed looting, arson
A victim yesterday testified that former Convention Muslim League leader Abdul Alim along with Pakistani army looted their house before torching it at Panchbibi, Joypurhat on April 20, 1971, as they were his political opponent in 1970's election.

Mustafizur Rahman Chowdhury, a former Awami League leader, told the International Crimes Tribunal-2 that Alim and other Peace Committee members welcomed Pakistani army at the neighbouring district and brought them to Panchbibi, where they killed many people.

Mustafizur, 14th prosecution witness in the case against Alim, a former member of late president Ziaur Rahman's cabinet, said agitated people attacked Alim's house at Joypurhat town in the evening of April 20, 1971 after they had heard about the attack on Panchbibi.

But people could not pick up Alim as he had fled, said the 70-year-old retired schoolteacher from Panchbibi.

The three-member tribunal led by Justice Obaidul Hassan with members Justice Md Mozibur Rahman Miah and Judge M Shahinur Islam recorded Mustafizur's testimony before adjourning the proceeding until today, when he would face cross-examination.

On June 11, 2012, the tribunal framed 17 charges against the former BNP lawmaker including genocide, murder of Bangalee civilians and burning people alive during the Liberation War.

During his 35-minute testimony, Mustafizur said he was the organising secretary of Panchbibi upazila Awami League as well as a schoolteacher in 1971.

He said his father late Meheruddin Chowdury was the founder president of Awami League in Panchbibi and from 1954 to 1971, his father was involved in AL activities.

His father was the member of Panchbibi All Party Movement Committee during the Liberation War, said Mustifizur, adding that his father was the chief agent of AL candidate Mafiz Chowdhury from Panchbibi in 1970's election.

"Me, my father and my two other brothers worked for Mafiz Chowdhury and Abdul Alim was Convention Muslim League's candidate and Mafiz Chowdhury won in the election," said Mustafizur, adding, "Our family members were Awami League supporters."

The witness said their home was a quarter mile away from Panchbibi Police Station.

"As our family worked against Abdul Alim in the election, for this reason, when Pakistani army entered Panchbibi on April 20, 1971, along with them [Pakistani army] Alim Shaheb attacked our house around 4:30-5:00pm that day, looted and torched our house," he added.

Mustafizur said he was in Joypurhat town during the attack and had heard people were attacking Alim's house around 6:30pm on that day.

As Mustafizur had asked the attackers, they told him that people attacked the house as Alim along with Pakistani army attacked Mustafizur's house, said the witness, adding that he had heard about the matter from advocate Anisur Rahman.

He also learned that Alim along with Joybar Ali Akand and Ayub Bihari from Panchbibi, who later became members of Peace Committee, an anti-liberation force, welcomed Pakistani army at Ghoraghat in Dinajpur around 2:00-2:30pm on April 20, 1971 and brought them to Panchbibi Market, where they killed many people.

Mustafizur said he had not gone to his house in fear that day and taken shelter at one of his relatives' house. On the following day he had returned home.

"I found none in the entire area when I went home and smoke was emitting from our house," said the witness.

When Mustifizur tried to learn about his parents' whereabouts from the people of his neighbouring village, they informed that one of his cousins, Shamsul Huda Chowdhury had taken shelter in their farmhouse at Madtur village.

"Then I talked with my cousin after going to the farmhouse [which was three kilometres southwest from their home] and learned details about the atrocities,"” said Mustafizur.

He said three or four days after the incident, he had gone to India and found his parents at a refugee camp there and returned to the country after liberation.

Several prosecution witnesses, who have already testified in the case, told about the attack on Meheruddin's house and Alim's role in the incident.

Kamaruzzaman's case

Meanwhile, the tribunal yesterday adjourned the case proceeding of Jamaat-e-Islami leader Muhammad Kamaruzzaman until today, as his senior counsels did not appear before the court citing "personal difficulties".

Yesterday was fixed for submission of the defence's closing arguments in the case for the third day, but none of the senior counsels including chief defence counsel Abdur Razzaq, who was supposed to place arguments, was present at the courtroom.

Radical Islamist organisation Hefajat-e-Islam enforced daylong hartal yesterday.

Tarikul Islam, a junior member of the defence, told the tribunal that the senior counsels could not come due to "personal difficulties" and prayed for an adjournment.

The tribunal said, "Hena Shaheb [Ahsanul Huq Hena, the counsel of Salauddin Quader Chowdhury and Abdul Alim] has come, Kamaruzzaman's son has come, why not your seniors?"

Hena appeared before the court under police protection.

"Senior [Abdur Razzaq] never comes out [from house] amid hartal," said Tarikul.

But when Tarikul prayed to the tribunal to fix the case proceedings after hartal days, the tribunal said, "Don't mention hartal."

The BNP-led 18-party alliance called 36-hour hartal from Tuesday morning.

The tribunal fixed today for further defence arguments and asked the defence to complete their arguments within Thursday.

As senior defence counsels of Jamaat leaders usually did not appear before the court on hartal days citing “security grounds, both the tribunals said the court would take necessary measure if they sought protection.

But the senior defence counsels had never appeared before the courts on hartal days leading the tribunals to adjourn the proceedings on several occasions subject to payment of costs by the defence.

A senior defence counsel had earlier told The Daily Star that they had no trust in police for their protection.

On the other side, the prosecution, on several occasions, alleged that the “deliberate” absence of the defence counsels was a “strategy to hamper the trial proceedings”.