2013-05-12 01:04:43+06:00
Tree looting threatens Kuakata 'green belt'
Felling of trees for illegal sale is now a common sight at Gangamoti Reserve Forest near Kuakata sea beach in Patuakhali district, thanks to the negligence of the authorities concerned. PHOTO: STAR

Random looting of trees from Gongamoti reserve forest near Kuakata sea beach in the district threatens the 'green belt' created by forest department to save the area from natural disasters like cyclone, flood and tidal surge in the coastal region.

The reserve forest covering an area of 12,000 acres of land is rich in different species of mangrove trees like chhoila, kewra, and gewa but a few gangs often fell trees there at night and send the logs to different places in the country by trawlers, local sources said.

There is also a beautiful lake inside and the local upazila administration recently built a bridge on the lake which is open to tourists.

Felling of trees for illegal sale is now a common sight at Gangamoti Reserve Forest near Kuakata sea beach in Patuakhali district, thanks to the negligence of the authorities concerned. PHOTO: STAR

During cyclones and tidal surges, fishermen often take shelter inside the forest.

During a visit to the area a couple of days ago, this correspondent found remains of several felled trees in the reserve forest.

Looters recently cut down at least 1,000 trees in the forest, said a local resident seeking anonymity.

Members of a few gangs regularly loot trees with the help of local forest staff, sources said, adding that if any local protests the matter the staff them by filing false cases.

"Forest department men unofficially sell trees for very cheap prices to gangs whereas cases are filed against local poor people for cutting even a branch. Besides, a section of locals have cleared a part of the forest land to cultivate paddy there but forest officials are overlooking the matter," said Abul Hossain Fakir, member of the local union parishad.

At least 2,000 trees have been felled and looted from the reserve forest in last three months, said another source.

Md Rezaul Karim, Gongamoti bit officer, denied the involvement of forest staff in illegal tree selling and said, "We have only three forest guards who are too insufficient to save the large forest area. We have already filed several cases against tree looters and the cases are under trial. Manpower should be increased to save the reserve forest."