2013-10-08 00:09:38+06:00
Jatka catching with banned nets, fish looting by intruders go on
Jatka along with big sized hilsa are on sale at Chandipur Bazar in Zianagar upazila under Pirojpur district. A section of fishermen have continued ignoring the ban on netting the fishes smaller than nine inches long. PHOTO: STAR

A section of fishermen have continued catching jatka (hilsa smaller than inches) alongside larger fishes with banned categories of nets in different rivers of the district.

Meanwhile, disturbance by robbers and frequent intrusion of Indian fishermen into Bangladesh waters remain the causes of concern for local fishermen.

During a recent visit to Kawcha, Sandha and Baleshwar rivers, this correspondent saw a large number of fishermen catching fish with banned current nets and bandha nets (a kind of fishing net kept tied in the river to trap small sized fishes) are being used in catching fish. Bandha nets also cause damage to eggs of fish.

The fisheries department seems indifferent to such illegal fishing for reasons unknown.

Because of use of banned fishing nets, the genuine fishermen are facing intolerable suffering, as they do not get expected fish from their legal nets.

“We do not get our expected fish, as the river is full of banned current and 'bandha' fishing nets,” alleged Abdul Alim, a fisherman in the Kawcha river.

“Only five percent fishermen are benefited through using banned nets while other 95% face problems for them,” said district fisheries officer Oliur Rahman.

“Sometimes we conduct drives by mobile courts and seize banned nets and damage them. But due to lack of manpower we cannot do it regularly,” he added.

Several fishermen returning from the Bay of Bengal alleged that Indian fishermen often enter 50-60 kilometres inside Bangladesh sea area and catch fishes there freely.

"Illegal fishing by Indians disturbs Bangladeshi fishermen. They damage our fishing nets and boats, even beat us if we protest," Shahadat Hossain, a fisherman returning from the sea said at Parerhat fisheries port in Pirojpur.

“Indian fishermen's illegal entrance to Bangladesh sea area increases during the peak hilsa catching season. The Indians also take opportunity during the ban period of catching fishes. Our fishermen dare not protest as often 25-30 Indian trawlers stay together,” said Abul Hossain, president of trawler owners' association of Sharonkhola upazila in Bagerhat over mobile phone.

“Forest robbers belonging to gangs led by Shirsho, Jahangir, Alif, Amir recently kidnapped 67 fishermen and demanded Tk 1-1.5 lakh for release of each. And disturbance by Indian intruders adds to our woes,” said Md Anwar Hossain, president of fish wholesalers association in Sharonkhola.

Contacted, Captain M Mazedul Haque, commander of Coastguard west zone said, “I am yet to get any such allegation of intrusion by Indian fishermen. However, I will look into the matter.”

"We arrange patrol regularly in the rivers for fishermen's safety from the robbers and the success rate is praiseworthy," he added.