2009-07-22 23:00:00+07:00
Court orders probe into looting
The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Court has ordered enquiry into the case filed in connection with the looting at firms owned by former caretaker government adviser Geeteara Safiya Choudhury and her husband former lawmaker Nazim Kamran Choudhury.

Abu Rushd Tarek, director of the companies who filed the case, told The Daily Star that the court asked the officer-in-charge of Gulshan Police Station to submit the enquiry report by August 8.

Tarek filed the case on July 16, naming seven persons including Mahbubul Islam, owner of the house on Road-41 in Gulshan-2 where the firms were housed, and his wife Farhana Islam.

In his petition, he said Adcom Limited, Signage and Megavision and a few other associated firms have been doing business with fame at that building following a five-year agreement on using the building with Farhana Islam on March 31, 2002.

"Since construction of the building was not complete, the accused gave a verbal commitment to extend the deal for another five years. Upon the commitment, the tenant gave her Tk 39 lakh in cash, but she did not renew the agreement," said the complainant.

Tarek said the two sides meantime got involved in a legal battle over the matter and the tenant started paying the house rent to the court.

"This enraged the owners of the house and they cut off the supply lines of gas, water and electricity of the house. They also filed a case, bringing some false allegations against the tenants. Being directed by the court, Gulshan police conducted an enquiry and found the allegations baseless," he said.

He said the owners filed a no-confidence petition with the court which was rejected and the matter is still under trial. He said on July 2 the accused filed a case with Gulshan Police Station against the tenants on charge of forcibly occupying the house.

"Nazim Kamran, Geeteara Safiya and other family members came to learn that about 60-70 people were looting the offices of their business firms. Nazim Kamran, Mukim Chowdhury and Adit rushed to Gulshan Police Station to file a case about the looting but the police arrested them," Tarek said, adding that the accused beat employees of the companies and forced them to leave the house.

Nazim Kamran was later released on bail.

Tarek alleged that the accused along with 60-70 unidentified people ransacked all the offices of the firms and later brought 10 trucks and pick-up vans to take away valuable furniture, electronic goods and machines worth at least Tk 15 crore and other documents.

He also alleged that the attackers took signatures of some employees on a white paper and stamps. They also forced the employees to sign a statement that said the business establishments themselves took away the valuables willingly.

Tarek alleged that they failed to file a case in this regard with Gulshan Police Station. He urged the court to take necessary actions against the accused persons.