2013-09-06 00:20:14+06:00
Tree looting denuding forests in all 8 Patuakhali upazilas
Tree looting from reserve forests even during the daytime has become a common affair. The photo was taken from Char Bangla in Galachipa upazila under Patuakhali district a couple of days ago. PHOTO: STAR

Criminals have continued tree looting from forests in all eight upazilas under the district allegedly with the connivance of a section of forest staff while the authorities are struggling to protect the natural resources with inadequate manpower and logistic support.

A gang looted over 200 trees from over three kilometre stretch of area (km) from Bhuria launch ghat to Dakkhin Char Moishadi under Patuakhali Sadar upazila early July this year, said locals and sources of Patuakhali divisional forest office.

"Informed by locals, I requested the forest officials to take step against the tree looters but in vain," said Abdus Salam Mridha, chairman of Kamlapur union parishad (UP).

A gang allegedly aided by three forest staff felled and looted over 300 trees from Baher Char area in Amkhola UP under Galachipa upazila from July 14 to July 19, locals told journalists and forest officials.

After hearing the matter, Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) Mihir Kanti Do visited the spot and seized 40 pieces of trees at night on July 19. At the same night a team of forest seized a trawler loaded with stolen trees from Lohalia River when it was being sent to Dhaka.

A three-member probe body was formed to investigate the matter but they have not submitted their report yet, the DFO said.

There are 77,598 acres of forest land including 44,268 acres of reserve forest under Patuakhali forest department but only 125 forest guards and boatmen are serving there, said sources at the office.

"Most areas in the district are surrounded by rivers and so, it is a challenging task to protect trees from thieves. We need more manpower and instrument to protect the forest resources," he said.

Forests officials seized 1,265.62 cft trees, 30 cft fuel wood, 734 saplings and filed 101 cases for stealing trees with different police stations in the district in one year from July in 2012 to June 2013, DFO sources said.