2009-03-02 00:00:00+06:00
Wife cries for justice
Mehrin Mujib, spouse of slain Colonel Mujibul Huq, demanded proper investigation into the Wednesday's massacre in the Bangladesh Rifles (BDR) headquarters at Pilkhana in the city and exemplary punishment to the killers.

In an exclusive interview, she told BSS that it was very difficult to describe how much efforts were made by herself and her son for their survival during the mutiny.

"I never think of such brutal killings. I do not believe that those who carried out the killings are soldiers. It was quite impossible to perpetrate the massacre by real soldiers, said emotion-chocked Mehrin.

On a query about overcoming her present family problem, she said the loss of her husband is irreparable. She said she lost everything as the killers burnt her house and assets to ashes.

Mehrin expressed her frustration saying that innocent officers were killed brutally in one hand and they were being wrongly blamed on the other.

Describing the Army officers as hard-working people, she said they earn their every asset after long efforts.

"If I say about only my own sufferings, it will be injustice as we also have lost a good number of brilliant officers," she said.

No one can imagine how many efforts the BDR officers particularly my husband made for making the countrywide Daal-Bhat programme a success, she said.

"My husband had to work for at least 18 hours for the programme, but what he got in return? That is nothing, but he had to make supreme sacrifice with slander," she said breaking into tears.

She recalled her memories with her friend Naznin Shakil, wife of slain BDR DG, saying that Naznin was a very close friend of her. Both the family members had a dinner at Pilkhana a day before the brutal killing, she mentioned.

She said, "So far I know, most slain officers, who worked under my husband, are honest and hard-working officers as they worked for at least 16 hours for the national interest paying no attention to personal of family affairs."

She made an appeal to countrymen to remain vigil so that such massacre could not be occurred once again.

Expressing her deep shock at the death of the Army officers, Mehrin said those who were killed are like a family members. So, she said, "I have lost all my family members."

Talking to the news agency, Major (retd) Afsar, a batch-mate of slain Col Mujib, said, "I saw my friend Mujib from very closely who was an honest, sincere and devoted Army officer."