2017-03-17 14:00:50+06:00
‘Suicide bomb blast’ kills ‘bomber’ at Ashkona Rab Camp
A suspected bomber died in what is believed to be a suicide blast at a barrack of the Rapid Action Battalion (Rab) in Dhaka’s Ashkona area during Jumma prayers this afternoon.



Also read: ‘Suicide bomber’ was in ‘black vest’, had a bag

The bomber died on the spot and two Rab men were “slightly injured,” Mufti Mahmud Khan, director of the force’s legal and media wing, told The Daily Star.

The Ashkona Rab barracks is a proposed site for the headquarters of the elite force. Currently, it is mostly an empty space fenced by brick walls. Inside, a large barrack is situated.

Dhaka Airport Police Station Officer-in-Charge Noor-E-Azam told The Daily Star that there was an explosion near the Rab camp site and that a man died in the blast.



A witness Mamunur Rahman, who was going to Haji Camp to offer Jumma prayers, said he heard a loud bang. “When I peeked through, I saw a man lying about and his flesh scattered everywhere.”

Contacted, Rab spokesman Mufti Mahmud said that the man climbed over the fencing and trespassed into Rab property around 1:00pm. “When challenged, a bomb he was carrying exploded.”

Rab men had cordoned off the blast site and were not allowing journalists to enter, last reported. However, intelligence officials and bomb disposal units had entered the site.

Rab Director General Benazir Ahmed and Inspector General of Police AKM Shahidul Hoque visited the spot this evening.

Meanwhile, law enforcers defused an unexploded bomb that was found beside the body, Mufti Mahmud said.

‘Loud sound, flesh scattered everywhere’

Rab spokesman Mufti Mahmud spoke to journalists at the spot and said the “bomber” had climbed the fencing that is adjoined to Haji Camp. He had entered 10-15 yards before he was challenged.

A witness Mamunur Rahman, who was going to Haji Camp to offer Jumma prayers, said he heard a loud bang. “When I peeked through, I saw a man lying about and his flesh scattered everywhere.”

Seeking anonymity, several Rab and police officials, who witnessed the dead body endorsed the devastation caused by the blast force. The youth, about 25 years of age, had his torso blown off.

The incident takes places a day after police busted a suspected militant den in Chittagong’s Sitakunda. The operation – code named Assault 16 – ended in deaths of four militants.