None
FF files war crimes case against AL MP
Freedom fighter Jalal Uddin on Monday filed a war crimes case against ruling Awami League MP from Mymensingh-6 constituency Md Muslem Uddin with a Mymensingh court.

Jalal from Phulbaria, Mymensingh lodged the case with the court of judicial magistrate Mahabubul Huq naming 16 accused including Muslem and 25 other unnamed suspects.

In the 1970 general election, Muslem was elected Member of the Provincial Assembly from Phulbaria.

As an MPA, in 1972 he was also a Member of the Constituent Assembly.

Jalal’s lawyer AKM Fazlul Huq told New Age that the accused faces the charges of killing a woman after raping her, killing several innocent people, looting and setting houses on fire as part of the Pakistani occupation army’s plan to foil the War of Independence.

He said that his client listed 23 witnesses names including Krishok Sramik Janata League president Abdul Kader Siddique, who led the Kaderia Bahini in the Liberation War and liberation war organizer Shahidullah Malek

He said that in 1970, Muslem was elected an MPA from Phulbaria on AL ticket.

‘My client, being a freedom fighter filed the lodged the case against the accused under the International Crimes (Tribunals) Act 1973.’

Fazlu said that the Mymensingh court took the case into cognizance and recorded the statement of the plaintiff and forwarded the case documents to the International Crimes Tribunal in the capital Dhaka.

Denying the allegations, Muslem told New Age that the plaintiff being a poor person might have been influenced by either anti-liberation forces or by ‘a vested quarters in my own party.’

He said, ‘The same person had filed the same case against me engaging the same lawyer in 2010 and the allegations were found to be false during investigation.’

In response, he said he filed a defamation case and a second case claiming compensation from the litigant.

He said the trials in both the cases were progressing.

He accused the lawyer of filing the case against him by concealing the truth only to malign him.

He said that he was not among the 23 MNAs and the MPAs who were not made the Members of the Constituent Assembly in 1972 for making the Constitution of the new Republic.

More about: