None
Rajshahi war crimes suspect Musa arrested, sent to jail
Police arrested a war crimes suspect at Puthia Upazila in Rajshahi on Sunday night in a case for his alleged link with extremism.

Puthia police officer-in-charge Hafizur Rahman told New Age that a team of police raided Puthia Bazar and arrested Abdus Samad alias Feroj Khan alias Musa at around 9pm.

The OC also said that Musa was produced before a Rajshahi court that sent him to Rajshahi central jail on Monday noon.

‘Musa, who allegedly blasted a bomb at village Tarash under the Upazila, was arrested in an extremism-related case which was lodged with the police station recently,’ he said.

Earlier on January 9-10, International Crimes Tribunal inspector Faruk Hossain visited Puthia and collected evidence of Musa’s crimes. He allegedly had committed crimes against humanity in Puthia during the Liberation War.

According to the investigator, Musa had joined infamous Razakar Bahini and was allegedly involved with various crimes against humanity in Puthiya thana during the war.

Nurul Islam, 62, who was a schoolboy and tortured by the Pakistan army in 1971 with the collaboration of Musa, told New Age that on April 13, 1971 Pakistani army with the help of Musa captured 21 innocent people of Gotiya village and tortured them whole night.

On the following morning, the occupation army released 17 villagers but killed rest of them. Musa was directly involved with the killing, claimed Nurul Islam.

After the liberation war, Musa fled away from Rajshahi and took shelter in India where his ancestral relatives had been living.

After 1975, Musa came back to Puthia and occupied 152 Bighas of lands of ethnic minority people and he became very influential of the locality.

Talking to New Age, prosecutor Zahid Imam who have been looking over the case, said

that he was informed about his arrest and he would appeal to the International Crimes Tribunal to show him arrested in the case of 1971 crimes against humanity.

More about: