2014-11-11 00:01:18+06:00
Driver killed, car hijacked
Police yesterday recovered the cuffed body of a driver with bullet wounds at Banasree of Rampura in the capital yesterday. Criminals posing as law enforcers shot him and took away his car. Photo: Banglar Chokh

A group of armed criminals posing as cops shot dead a driver and hijacked the car he was driving from the capital's Banasree area early yesterday.

The victim is Faruk Kha, 32. He was on his way to deliver the private car imported by Manten Motors from Japan.

Police recovered the bullet-hit body of Faruk and a pair of handcuffs attached to his right wrist. The handcuff inscribed with "police" was handed over to Rampura police later.

Quoting witness, Mahbubur Rahman Talukder, officer-in-charge of Rampura Police Station, said a group of criminals on a white private car waylaid Faruk's golden colour private car near Banasree Central Jame Mosque. Impersonating police, they forced him to get out of his car and handcuffed him.

The criminals shot him twice as he resisted them from taking away the vehicle, the OC said.

On information, a police patrol team rushed there. They recovered the body and sent to Dhaka Medical College Hospital morgue for an autopsy. Next to the mosque, there is a police outpost. The area is also guarded by security personnel deployed by Banasree Kalyan Samiti, an organisation of the house owners of Banasree.

"It was around 3:00am. I kept my vigil in the area. Suddenly I heard two gunshots. I approached the scene and started whistling to alert my fellow colleagues," said Abdul Majid, a security guard of the samiti.

"I saw two men in white car but could not see anything inside the other car as it had tinted glass windows."

Majid said the two cars then made a u-turn and tried to run over him while heading towards Rampura Bridge at high speed, leaving Faruk in a pool of blood. The victim died on the spot.

Another security guard of a nearby ATM booth said he heard Faruk saying, "Sir, please don't kill me. What is my fault?"

Hailing from Bagerhat, Faruk was supposed to park the car inside a building at Banasree upon instruction from Omar Faroque Khan Khokon, manager of the automobiles company.

Khokon said two drivers, Faruk and Khaza, left Mongla Port with two imported private cars for Dhaka around 8:00pm on Sunday.

"I instructed Khaza to take the car to Naya Paltan and Faruk to Banasree."

Both the cars were on a ferry at Aricha Ghat around 12:15am. They were coming together but got separated at Kakrail area, Khokon said quoting Khaza.

"Khaza confirmed me over the phone that he handed over the car safely to the person concerned around 3:20am but when I contacted Faruk around 4:00pm, I found his phone switched off," added the manager.

Meanwhile, police contacted the drivers association in Bagerhat from the belongings of the deceased. Khaza came to know about the incident by other drivers and informed the manager.

Deceased's brother Badsha Kha yesterday filed a case with Rampura Police Station. Police are yet to arrest anyone in this connection or trace the missing vehicle.