2017-03-18 08:32:05+06:00
Man ‘carrying bombs’ killed in Rab firing at Dhaka check post
-- Rider, 24, violated Rab signal to stop --2 elite force members injured -- IED, bombs tied to vest found -- Red Apache motorcycle with no number plate

A man carrying bombs was killed in Rab firing when he tried to penetrate a check post with a motorcycle in Khilgaon area of Dhaka early today, Rab said.



"An unidentified miscreant, carrying explosives, tried to penetrate Rab-3 check post with a motorcycle at Shekher Jaiga area around 4:30am," said a text message of the elite force floated to media in the morning.

Also READ: Rab firing: Multiple bullet marks found on biker’s body

Sensing danger, officials of Rapid Action Battalion (Rab) opened fire, leaving the man dead, Mufti Mahmud Khan, director of the elite force's legal and media wing, told The Daily Star.

Read More: Suicide blast at Rab barrack

Two Rab members were also injured during the incident, he added.



The incident took place a day after a suspected suicide bomber sneaked into a Rab barrack and blew himself up in the capital's Ashkona.



It appears to be the country's first such attack by a terror suspect inside a law enforcement agency's compound.



Terror group Islamic State claimed credit for the attack, according to a BBC Bangla report.

Red Apache without number plate

The elite force members opened fire after the motorcycle rider, age around 24, tried to flee after violating their signal to stop at the check post, Lt Col Tuhin Mohammad Masud, chief executive officer (CEO) of Rab-3, told journalists at a press briefing later.





The rider fell down on the ground with his motorcycle near the check post, he said.



But the law enforcers did not immediately go near the motorcycle after noticing the shoulder bag he was carrying.



They found the bullet-hit body when a bomb disposal unit reached the spot, the Rab official said.

IED, bombs in vest

One handmade improvised explosive device (IED) was recovered from the bag and several bombs were tied to a vest on his body, the Rab-3 CEO said.



Later around 10:21am, law enforcers defused the recovered bombs at a nearby field.

No locality in 200-300 yards

The spot in Shekher Jaiga, a link road to Demra, is around six kilometres away from Rampura Bridge in Dhaka.



Our correspondent who is visiting the spot found no households in 200-300 yards, except an under construction building and tin-shed godown nearby.