2010-03-21 00:00:00+06:00
Cell phone hijacking
Nowadays cell phone has become a part and parcel of our everyday life. Passing a single day without cell phone is unthinkable for many of us. Today the usage of cell phone is not just limited in distant talking, rather it is being used in multiple ways. We all are dreaming of a digital Bangladesh. And it goes without saying that mobile phone can play a very significant role to make our dream come true.

In our country, using cell phone, especially costly cell phone is a very risky job. Whenever we go out, we can't avoid worrying about its safety because it could be hijacked anytime. Having a personal cell phone lost or stolen may be one of these situations in which we feel rather helpless or without knowing exactly what to do or where to go for help. In cases like these the following tips may be of some use at least to minimize the potential problems you may run into.

1. When you do pull out your mobile handset in public, make sure you are in an environment you feel comfortable in. Mobile users who walk and talk are particularly vulnerable because thieves know that they are at their most distracted. Of course hiding a mobile phone cannot mask its presence from undesirables if it decides to ring. To avoid attracting unwanted attention it is therefore wise to set the device to vibrate whenever possible.

2. One simple but effective solution of helping to protect your mobile phone from theft is to attach it to a safety strap that is either worn around the neck or attached to a belt or a bag, and then kept out of sight. Of course this method would be ineffective in a mugging situation but might be enough to guard against your phone being snatched from you whilst you are unaware.

3. You should take care of your cell phone as if it were your personal wallet. Check the user guide that comes with your phone set and start using the lock or password feature to potentially prevent a theft from making unauthorized phone calls. There are ways to get around passwords, but you will probably be buying yourself some time until you realize the loss of your cell phone and call your service phone provider.

4. It is important to remember that if your mobile phone is stolen the first thought should not be how I can retrieve it but how I can stop anyone else using it. Make a note of the model, phone number and PIN number details, it is also suggested to record your phone's unique reference number, or IMEI, as this will enable most network operators to permanently disable the handset if it is stolen. This code is usually printed underneath the mobile phone battery but alternatively it can be retrieved by dialling '#06#'. The network will disable your phone within 48 hours if you report the incident to them and provide the IMEI.

5. File a police report. It may not be of much help in getting your cell phone back, but it should provide an official record of the missing/stolen cell phone. Keep the police report number available while reporting the loss to the phone carrier.

Unfortunately, it's true that you may never get back what you have already lost but your awareness could help everyone to prevent further hijacking.