None
attack
US drone kills militant blamed for attack on SRL team in Pak A US drone air strike in Afghanistan has killed a Pakistani militant accused of involvement in a deadly attack on a bus carrying Sri Lanka's cricket team in 2009, Pakistani security sources and Islamist militants said.

Vietnam apologises for Indonesia team bus attack Vietnamese football authorities apologised on Thursday after fans hurled stones at the Indonesian team bus shortly after their Suzuki Cup semi-final tie in Hanoi, breaking a window and injuring two of the visiting team's staff.

Papon thanks ECB Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) president Nazmul Hassan Papon thanks the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) to let England's tour of Bangladesh in October to go on as planned.

Cricket: ECB security delegation arrives England and Wales Cricket Board's (ECB's) security delegation arrived today at Bangladesh to hold a string of meetings with local security agencies.

Anticipation high for England The Tigers are going through gruelling training sessions and eager to return to Test cricket.

ECB security delegation to meet Bangladesh home minister The ECB's security delegation, which is expected to arrive in Dhaka on Wednesday, will have meetings with local security agencies, the UK and Australian high commissions and Bangladesh's home minister Asaduzzaman Khan.

Cricket: Eng still to decide on Bangladesh tour England will not make a decision on whether to go ahead with a tour of Bangladesh later this year until a security probe of the country has been completed, assistant coach Paul Farbrace says.

More security for foreign coaches Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) is preparing to provide its foreign coaches decent security cover upon their arrival in the aftermath of the recent attack in Gulshan.

Brazil holds terror suspects Brazil hold 10 presumed Islamist militants in isolation cells at a maximum security jail as police comb their computers and mobile phones for information about possible threats to next month's Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.

Sports world pays tribute to Nice attack victims France Davis Cup captain Yannick Noah, riders at the Tour de France and golfers at the British Open lead tributes from the world of sport to the victims of the Nice terror attack.

Mumbai cops begin probe against Zakir Naik Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis directs the Mumbai Police officials to open an inquiry against Islamic preacher Zakir Naik, according to Zee News.

Eng reconsider Bangladesh tour England cricket chiefs indicated Saturday they were prepared to cancel a tour of Bangladesh after an attack saw 20 foreigners killed in the country.

Keshi dies Former Nigeria defender Stephen Keshi, who won the African Nations Cup as both a player and a coach, dies of a suspected heart attack on Wednesday, the country's football association has confirmed.

‘Euro 2016 in France could be terror target’ The US has warned that the Euro 2016 football championship being held in France next month could be a target of militant attacks.

France extends state of emergency to cover Euros France's parliament confirms a two-month extension of the state of emergency that has been in place since November's jihadist attacks to cover the Euro 2016 football tournament and Tour de France.

LVG puts on brave face Manchester United manager Louis van Gaal put on a brave face and refused to blame an attack on his team's bus for the serious setback to his side's Champions League hopes at West Ham United.

8 Bangladeshis held in Singapore for plotting attacks back home Singapore says it has arrested eight Bangladeshi workers, who were planning to stage terror attacks back home. The country’s home ministry releases a kill-list found with them, which include MPs, ministers and media personnel. Meanwhile, in Dhaka, cops arrest five other Bangladeshi nationals, who were repatriated from Singapore after the authorities found that they possessed and/or proliferated jihadi-related materials, or supported the use of armed violence.

2 shot dead in Ctg Two youths were shot dead during an attack by rivals in Rangunia upazila of Chittagong.

3 TV journo hurt in Brahmanbaria AL attack Three television media journalists have been attacked allegedly by Awami League men while covering vote rigging in Brahmanbaria Sadar.

Taliban group claims Lahore park attack A Taliban splinter group says it carried out a suicide attack on a park in the Pakistani city of Lahore, which killed more than 70 people, including children. The Jamaat-ul-Ahrar group said the attack had deliberately targeted Christians celebrating Easter Day.

24 killed in attacks on minorities in 2015: report At least 262 incidents of repression on minorities take place across the country last year affecting 1,562 families, according to a report of Bangladesh Hindu- Buddhist-Christian Oikya Parishad.

Villagers kill leopard after it injures 3 A leopard which entered the locality of Shreebordi municipality in Sherpur attacked the municipality mayor who was trying to get a peek at it yesterday morning.

Cop, 4 others hurt in clash in Feni Five people, including a policeman, were injured when a clash broke out over an attack on the motorcade of independent lawmaker Rahim Ullah in Feni yesterday.

Saudi attack: Bangladeshis ‘safe’ No Bangladesh national are either killed or injured in the deadly attack at a mosque in Al Hasa, some 350 km off Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

2015 saw attack on freedom of expression Freedom of expression came under severe attack in Bangladesh last year, Human Rights Watch said in its World Report 2016.

19 dead in Somalia restaurant attack Somalia's Islamist Shebab militants killed at least 19 people when five gunmen detonated a bomb before storming a popular seaside restaurant in the capital Mogadishu.