None
Rampura
‘JMB man’ among 3 killed in Gaibandha, Dhaka ‘shootouts’ An alleged operative of banned militant outfit Jama'atul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) and two suspected hijackers have been killed in separate "gunfights" with law enforcers in Gaibandha and Dhaka.

‘Raped’ girl rescued at Rampura, 3 held Rapid Action Battalion (Rab) rescue a 12-year-old girl who was allegedly raped and detained three persons from the capital's Rampura area.

Child dies, hit by rod falling from building Yet another life is lost because of construction work without safety measures. This time, a kid was killed at West Hazipara in the city's Rampura.

Muggers kill shop employee, loot money Muggers shot dead a shop employee and snatched Tk 2.90 lakh in the capital's Hajipara yesterday afternoon.

Minor killed in Rampura building collapse A five-year-old girl is killed and a baby injured after an under-construction building collapsed in the Dhaka’s Rampura this evening.

Mother confesses killing her kids: Rab Mother, Mahfuza Maleq alias Jesmin, confesses to killing her two minor children who were found dead in Dhaka’s Banasree area on February 29, according to Rapid Action Battalion.

2 burnt in gas leak fire at Rampura Two people sustain burn injuries in a fire caused by gas leak at their residence in Dhaka’s East Rampura area.

6 Shibir men held with 1kg gunpowder in Rampura Police claim arrest of six activists of Islami Chhatra Shibir, the student wing of Jamaat-e-Islami, and recover one kilogramme of gunpowder from their possession at Rampura in the capital.

VAT protesters give flowers to cops, take selfies Students demonstrating for withdrawal of value added tax (VAT) from private universities’ tuition fees pass another day on the streets peacefully.

University students cripple Dhaka with anti-VAT demo Private university students hit the streets across Dhaka demanding withdrawal of the 7.5 percent VAT imposed on tuition fees - a day after police opened fire on East West University students demonstrating on the same demand.

Abbas, Khoka charged with Shibir leader killing Rampura police press charges against 37 BNP leaders and activists, including Mirza Abbas, Goyeshwar Chandra Roy and Sadeque Hossain Khoka, in connection with the killing of Chhatra Shibir leader Mansur Pradhania.

Owner of Rampura collapsed house sued Rampura police file a case against the owner of the two-storey makeshift house that collapsed yesterday, killing 12 people in Dhaka.