2008-12-07 00:00:00+06:00
Alert at Indian airports on plane hijack report
Security at airports across India was stepped up yesterday on new information about possible jet hijackings, officials said, one week after gunmen went on a shooting spree in Mumbai, killing 163 people.

Earlier this week, officials received warnings that militants could attempt to hijack passenger planes to coincide with anniversary of the destruction of the Babri mosque in northern India by Hindu extremists in 1992.

New in-depth checks have been introduced on top of existing measures to "ensure no security problems arise," a senior police officer at New Delhi International Airport said on condition of anonymity.

One woman travelling through the airport told NDTV television: "I'm happy if they do 100 checks as long as passengers reach their destinations safely. I'm ready to go through any amount of checks."

All major airports -- including those in Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and New Delhi -- had already been on high alert following a warning that armed gunmen could storm airports and take hostages.

The stepped-up airport security came in response to "fresh intelligence inputs" about the hijack warnings, said Moushmi Chakravarty, spokeswoman for India's civil aviation ministry.

Security was initially increased after the Mumbai attacks last week in which 10 militants targetted multiple locations in India's western financial capital, killing 163 people including 26 foreigners. Nine militants were killed.

Security is traditionally tight across India on the anniversary of the demolition of the Babri mosque.

Hindu zealots tore down the 16th-century structure in the town of Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh state, igniting deadly Hindu-Muslim riots across the country.

Report from Kolkata add: Indian police have arrested two men for allegedly supplying mobile phone cards to militants who staged the deadly Mumbai attacks, police said yesterday.

The men were arrested late Friday in the eastern city of Kolkata "for allegedly providing SIM cards to the terrorists in the Mumbai attacks," senior police official Javed Shamim told reporters.

The arrests are believed to be the first in connection with the attacks, other than the capture of one of the militants during the 60-hour siege of India's financial hub.

Shamim identified the two men as Tousif Rahaman and Sheikh Muktar.

"Tousif, who was living in the central part of the city, bought about 40 SIM cards from the city, two of which are believed to have been given to the terrorists," Shamim said.

He said that the other man was from revolt-hit Indian Kashmir, where Islamic militants have been waging a nearly two-decade battle against New Delhi's rule.

The attack by 10 gunmen against multiple targets in Mumbai, including the landmark Taj Mahal hotel, killed 163 people including 26 foreigners. Nine militants were killed.