2012-03-09 00:00:00+06:00
Criminals eject top cop, hijack car
Criminals posing as law enforcers stopped a car in the capital's Mohammadpur early yesterday and robbed its passengers, including a top police official. They also took away the vehicle.

Abu Musa Md Fakhrul Islam, additional deputy inspector general of police, was not in his uniform during the incident around 3:45am.

He was returning home from Square Hospitals where his wife's brother-in-law had passed away earlier that night.

Abu Musa was in a Toyota Corolla along with the deceased's daughter and daughter-in-law and a child.

Mahmudul Islam, officer-in-charge of Mohammadpur Police Station, told The Daily Star a gang of five to six persons in another car intercepted the Toyota Corolla on Khilji Road.

The criminals, identifying themselves as police, said they would search the car. As the driver opened the window, they asked all to step out of the car, the OC said.

When everyone came out, the criminals snatched two handbags, five mobile phones, a gold chain and Tk 9,000 in cash, and sped away on the cars.

“The additional DIG was unarmed and he did not disclose his identity,” the OC said.

Abu Musa is also a member of Directing Staff (MDS-Research and Evaluation) of Police Staff College at Mirpur.

The OC said after the criminals left the scene, the additional DIG informed other policemen of the incident.

“When policemen of a check post at Shyamoli identified the stolen car, they chased it. But the criminals escaped, leaving behind two bags of booty and a mobile phone on the road.”

Biplab Sarkar, assistant police commissioner of Mohammadpur zone, said, “We are trying to recover the car and arrest the criminals.”

Several other police officials also confirmed the incident to The Daily Star.

But Imam Hossain, deputy police commissioner of Tejgaon division, claimed that the additional DIG was not present during the incident.

Emdadul Sheikh, the driver of the car, filed a case with Mohammadpur Police Station. The case statement did not mention the additional DIG.

The Daily Star failed to reach Abu Musa for his comments.