2012-07-13 00:00:00+06:00
Robbers hijack van, kill fish trader's staff




Robbers hijacked a fish-laden pickup at Mohakhali in the capital early yesterday, killing an employee of a fish trading agency and injuring the pickup driver.

This incident took place amid a 48-hour strike enforced by the owners of trucks, covered vans and pickups to press home their 14-point demand, including stopping highway robbery, extortion and police harassment. Beginning from 6:00am on Wednesday, the strike was scheduled to end at 6:00am today.

On May 22, a truck helper was killed and his two colleagues were injured as carjackers threw them from a running truck in the capital's Agargaon area, after hijacking the rod-laden truck from Savar.

The dead in yesterday's incident is Md Hafiz, 40, and the injured driver is Md Yusuf. Yusuf was undergoing treatment at Dhaka Medical College Hospital yesterday.

Hafiz was an employee of "Dui Bandhu Fish Enterprise" at Abdullahpur fish market.

The pickup was on its way to Abdullahpur from the capital's Karwan Bazar with 32 cartons of fish worth Tk 3 lakh, said Amin Uddin, one of the owners of the enterprise.

The criminals waylaid the pickup with a mini truck near Rawa Club at Mohakhali around 4:15am, said Bhuiyan Mahbub Hasan, officer-in-charge of Banani Police Station.

"Kafrul police are looking into the matter as the incident happened under Kafrul Police Station," he told The Daily Star.

According to Yusuf, the gang of 10 to 12 waylaid their pickup and got on it after it pulled up, and tied both of them.

"While someone among the gang drove away our fish-laden pickup, others forced us into the mini truck and started beating us. At one stage, they threw me off the mini truck at Amtoli [in Tongi] and drove away with Hafiz," he said.

Hafiz was also thrown off a few yards away, which Yusuf said he came to know later.

Locals rescued the two and took them to DMCH where doctors declared Hafiz dead.

Relatives of Hafiz, however, suspect Yusuf had a hand in the incident.

Hafiz's niece Hazera Benu said: "There were two people in the pickup -- my uncle and the driver. It seems abnormal to me that the criminals killed one of them."

There were marks of beating all over Hafiz's body, but no marks of stabbing or shooting, DMCH sources said.

Contacted, Officer-in-charge of Kafrul Police Station Abdul Latif said the police had already quizzed Yusuf.

"We are trying to know if the driver was involved in it. We are also trying to recover the hijacked pickup and arrest the criminals," he said.

According to police record, more than 150 incidents of robbery on bus and truck happened in and around the capital in last one and a half years.

"We are now totally insecure. Not only our vehicles, the lives of our drivers and helpers are also at grave risk," Rustum Ali, general secretary of Bangladesh Truck and Covered Van Owners Association, told this correspondent after the brutal hijack in May.