2009-10-20 23:00:00+07:00
Selection of retailers misses another deadline for politicisation, bribery
Recruitment of retailers for distribution of fertilisers at grassroots level is yet to be completed in most unions of 16 northern districts although the government's extended deadline for it expired on October 15.

The government is recruiting some 10,629 retailers under 1,600 fertiliser dealers appointed by Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC) in 85 municipalities and 1,096 unions of northern districts, sources said.

Allegations of politicisation and bribery in case of selection of retailers are creating dissatisfaction among the genuine fertiliser traders and delaying the recruitment process, say reports from different districts.

As the recruitment could not be completed within earlier deadline of September 30, the government extended the time for recruiting retailers to distribute fertilisers in northern region by two weeks.

Recruitment of retailers was not possible within the time limit due to differences of opinion among the members of union committees over selecting names, reports our staff correspondent from Rajshahi.

Out of total 774 retailers to be appointed in nine upazilas of Rajshahi, only 45 retailers in Mohonpur and 36 in Bagha upazila have been recruited within October 15, said AED official Dipendra Mohon, who is monitoring the recruitment in the district.

Amid allegations of taking Tk 20,000 as bribe from each retailer in Godagari and Tanore upazilas, lawmaker Omar Faruk Chowdhury called a meeting of all UP chairmen in Rajshahi on Thursday and warned them of stern action if irregularities are found.

Agricultural Extension Department (AED) officials in Natore, Bogra and Naogaon said that they would need two or three days more to complete the recruitment.

Asked about the allegation of bribery against the MP's men in Mohonpur, local lawmaker M Meraj Uddin Mollah said, "I am not aware of what is happening over recruitment. I am staying in Dhaka. I do not know whether anyone is collecting money using my name."

Most of the union committees in nine upazilas of Pabna district have failed to complete recruitment process of the retailers within the scheduled timeframe, reports our correspondent.

Official sources said a total of 738 retailers are to be recruited for 73 unions and nine municipalities in nine upazilas of the district for distributing fertilisers at grassroots level. Each union or municipality will have nine retailers.

While visiting different areas in the district, The Daily Star correspondent found that union committees are struggling to select the names of genuine traders as a large number of ruling party men have applied for it.

Sources said most of the union selection committees under Vangura, Faridpur and Atghoria upazilas could not finalise the names of retailers yet.

Meanwhile, the local selection committees have submitted the names of retailers to the upazila committees in Sujanagar, Ishwardi, Bera and Santhia upazilas.

When contacted, Deputy Director of Pabna Agriculture Extension Department Md Sanaullah Miah told The Daily Star that they will select the traders as per rule and the process will complete soon.

Our Manikganj correspondent adds: Local people brought out a procession and held a rally at Singair in Manikganj demanding removal of Singair Upazila Nirbahi Officer (UNO) Md Nazrul Islam for his alleged irregularities in appointing retailers.

Around 2,000 people joined the procession on Singair Pilot High School premises. They later sat a meeting with the UNO and gave him seven days ultimatum for cancelling the recruitment.