2009-01-24 00:00:00+06:00
‘Thieves looked for something valuable but illegal’
The break-in at Bangladesh Railway (BR) headquarters on Saturday night was not an incident of mere theft. Criminals broke into the office rooms to take away something that is "valuable but illegal".

Besides this finding, the probe committee formed by the communications ministry suspects that the incident might have been carried out by a vested interest group to damage the image of the government.

However, the confession of Enamul Huq Khokan, who was arrested by the Detective Branch (DB), contradicts the probe committee report. Khokan told the DB that they broke into the BR office only to steal money and valuables.

Earlier on Tuesday, the communications secretary and BR director general also described the incident as theft and said nothing but some money, four mobile phones and a laptop computer were stolen.

Talking to The Daily Star, head of the probe body Joint Secretary Nasrin Akter yesterday said, "It is sure that the criminals did not ransack 56 rooms for just Tk 92,000, four mobile phones and a laptop computer.

“They had a different mission and we suspect they were looking for something highly precious but illegal kept in one of the rooms. As the criminals did not know its specific location they ransacked 56 rooms," she said.

“We suspect that some illegal objects or documents might have been removed from the railway office before the looters broke in," Nasrin added.

The probe report mentions that various things were removed from Railway Reform Project Director Habibur Rahman's room on the sixth floor and another room.

The report points at four of the seven suspended security guards who were on duty at the time of looting.

In reply to a question, Nasrin Akter said apart from their findings, the incident might have been carried out to damage the image of the government as there are division among the officials and staffers in the office.

On Wednesday night, Criminal Investigation Department (CID) personnel arrested the suspended seven security guards. The DB also arrested another person named Enamul Huq Khokan in connection with the incident and recovered Tk 5,000 and a mobile phone from him. Khokan was taken on a four-day remand yesterday.

Earlier on Thursday, security officials Sub-Inspector Anwar Hossain Dewan, Havilder Sayedul Alam and guards Monju Miah, Shamim Ahmed, Shamsul Alam, Mokammel Huq and Manzur Miah were taken on a three-day remand each.

Meanwhile, DB (North) Deputy Commissioner Mainul Hasan also agreed with the findings of the probe committee. There might have been a different motive behind the incident, he said but refused to say anything in confirmation before the investigation completes.

Talking to The Daily Star, he said, "Our first task is to arrest the other members of the gang and then find out if there was anybody behind the incident."

In reply to a question, he said the probe report submitted by Nasrin Akter would be sought if necessary for their investigation.

When contacted, CID Chief Additional Inspector General Javed Patwary told The Daily Star that as the case was shifted to the DB they would hand over the arrested seven persons to the DB soon.