None
Dhaka Attack
Police boss refutes IS existence Pulling reference to the latest claim of Islamic State existence in Bangladesh, the country’s police boss maintained the claim that there is no presence of the Islamist terrorist outfit here.

Pope meets families of Dhaka attack victims Pope Francis has met the families of nine Italian victims of Holey Artisan Bakery attack in Dhaka’s Gulshan area last year.

Dhaka attack mastermind Gandhi remanded Jahangir Alom alias Rajib alias Gandhi, one of the masterminds of Holey Artisan Bakery attack in Dhaka’s Gulshan area, has been placed on an eight-day remand by a Dhaka court.

Militancy: Cops yet to identify foreign financiers Law enforcers identified most of the local sources those had financed militant activities in the country, Dhaka Metropolitan Police (DMP) Commissioner Asaduzzaman Mia says.

Bodies of Marzan, Saddam bear multiple bullet marks The bodies of Neo JMB leaders Nurul Islam Marzan and Saddam Hossain, who were killed in yesterday’s “gunfight” with law enforcers, bear marks of multiple bullets.

Neo JMB leader Marzan, another killed in ‘shootout’ Neo JMB leader Nurul Islam Marzan, who was the operational commander of July 1 Gulshan café attack, and his aide are reportedly killed in a shootout with police in Mohammadpur of Dhaka.

Maj Zia, Marzan to be arrested anytime: Minister Sacked army Major Syed Ziaul Haque and Nurul Islam Marzan, who had played vital roles in Gulshan café attack and targeted killings, will be arrested anytime, Home Minister Asaduzzaman Khan says.

USD 10,000 spent on Gulshan café attack: Cops The Neo JMB spent around USD 10,000 to carry out the deadly attack at the Holey Artisan Bakery in Dhaka’s Gulshan area that left 20 hostages and two police officials dead, police claim.

Dhaka attack: Court asks CTTC to submit report by Jan 22 A Dhaka court asks the Counter Terrorism and Transnational Crime unit of Dhaka Metropolitan Police to submit the probe report in connection with the case filed over the Gulshan café attack by January 22.

Hasnat’s father dies Rezaul Karim, father of Hasnat Karim who was held hostage inside Holey Artisan Bakery in the diplomatic zone for over 10 hours, dies.

Dr Rokon, Maj Jahid financed Dhaka cafe attack: DMP Rokonuddin Khondoker, who fled with family to Syria, and Major (retd) Jahidul Islam and Tanvir Kaderi killed in Rupnagar and Azimpur raids donated to Neo JMB that carried out the Holey Artisan attack.

Dhaka attack: Tahmid cleared, Hasnat stays accused Canadian university student Tahmid Hasib Khan, who walked on bail after police said he had no link with the Dhaka attack of July 1, has been cleared of the charges brought against him under section 54. Former private university teacher Hasnat Karim, the only other detainee caught over the incident, stays as the key accused of the case filed over the terrorist attack.

News Analysis: Should innocent too suffer? We will never be able to feel his pain and trauma. We will never know his helpless nights in the dungeon of the jailhouse.

Deported Bangladeshi met Dhaka attack suspect in Malaysia A Bangladeshi man who was among four arrested in Malaysia for terror links had met the suspect involved in Dhaka cafe attack.

Gulshan Cafe Attack: Five militants, chef buried The five Gulshan attackers and the chef killed during a commando operation at the Holey Artisan Bakery over two and a half

Dhaka café attackers buried as none claims bodies The five dead Gulshan café attackers and a chef are buried at the Jurain graveyard in Dhaka as nobody has claimed their bodies, police say.

Decision on 19 militants’ bodies after test reports: Cops Decision on the bodies of 19 militants killed in Gulshan attack and Kalyanpur, Narayanganj and Mirpur raids will be finalised after receiving reports of various tests carried out on them.

Dhaka attack: 'Bomb expert' identified Police identify a bomb expert named Sohel Mahfuz who played important role in Gulshan cafe attack and provide crude bombs during the attack on July 1 in Dhaka.

‘English schools, madrasas most prone to militancy’ English medium schools and madrasas, where the practice of Bangla culture is least, are most prone to radicalisation, DMP counter-terrorism chief Monirul Islam says.

Adnani played 'major role' Top Islamic State group strategist Abu Mohamed al-Adnani, who was killed on Tuesday, played a major role in the group

Lights turned off before butchery The militants turned off all the lights inside the Holey Artisan Bakery around an hour after they stormed the upscale café in the capital's Gulshan.

Dhaka, Sholakia attacks: Victim cops’ families get financial assistance Families of four policemen killed and three injured during Gulshan café attack and Sholakia Eidgah attack are handed over Tk 1.28 crore as financial assistance.

Dhaka attack: IDs of 5 militants, chef confirmed thru' DNA tests Identities of five dead Gulshan café militants and a chef have been confirmed through DNA tests, police say. The DNA test reports were collected from Criminal Investigation Department (CID) yesterday, Masudur Rahman, deputy commissioner (media) of DMP told The Daily Star.

Hasnat sent to jail after 16-day remand Hasnat Karim, a former teacher of a private university who has been shown arrested in Gulshan attack case, is sent to jail on completion of his 16-day remand.