2009-09-05 23:00:00+07:00
BGMEA's demand for Tk 3,000cr an attempt to blackmail govt
Noted economist Prof MM Akash yesterday said the BGMEA's demand for Tk 3,000 crore to pay the workers' wages and bonuses is an attempt to blackmail the government.

“They are blackmailing the government by saying if the government does not pay them the money and if the workers go for any unrest, the government would be responsible for that,” he said while speaking at the Bangladesh Sanglap hosted by BBC Bangla Service.

Prof Akash said they need to specifically show their balance sheets how much loss they are incurring. The government is doing it right by not giving them any fund for facing economic recession as their growth is still positive.

Adviser to Prime Minister Dr Syed Modasser Ali said, “Our garment industries were benefited by the economic recession in the US and elsewhere and it was making positive growth.”

“They [garment owners] need to recognise that how logical it would be that the government would pay the workers' Eid bonus owned by them. I think they need other government supports than stimulus package,” he said.

President of Bangladesh Women's Chamber of Commerce and Industries Salima Ahmad said it is unfortunate that people always support the workers, not the owners. The owners' interests should also be considered.

Replying to a query at the dialogue on the contemporary issues of the country, Dr Modasser said the government has taken all the steps to fight swine flu, adding that media and the opposition party have supported the government in this regard.

BNP leader ANM Ehsanul Haque Milon said the government did not take enough measures for tackling the economic meltdown.

But he also hailed the government for different steps they had taken so far to tackle the swine flu epidemic.

About the leasing of gas blocks to two foreign companies, Dr Modasser said the government would not do anything against the interest of the nation.

The dialogue was held at the Bangabandhu International Conference Centre in the city.