2015-07-04 00:00:00+06:00
Say no to 'blackmail'
Greek PM Alexis Tsipras yesterday called on voters to reject "blackmail" when they vote in a bailout referendum tomorrow.

In a short TV address, he insisted Greece's presence in the EU was not at stake and urged voters to reject the "sirens of scaremongering".

Tomorrow, Greek voters will decide whether they support the terms of further international loans, following months of tough talks with creditors.

EU leaders have warned that a "No" vote could see Greece leave the eurozone.

Greece's economy is already being squeezed after the country lost access to fresh funds. Banks have been shut and limits imposed on cash withdrawals.

On top of that, Greece was officially declared in default yesterday, injecting even more urgency into a make-or-break weekend referendum that new polls suggested was too close to call.

The European Financial Stability Facility said, though, that it had decided to not immediately demand repayment of its loans -- a step that analysts say could have triggered sudden "Grexit", or Greece's exit from the eurozone.

The news will come as a fresh shock to Greece's 11 million people, and will hang over two major, rival rallies taking place in Athens late yesterday seeking to galvanise 'Yes' and 'No' support for the referendum.

There have also been forceful exchanges of views across the continent, with European politicians starkly denying Greek claims that a "No" vote will strengthen their hand in the bailout negotiations.

"If the Greeks will vote 'No' the Greek position will be dramatically weakened," said EU Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker. "Even with a 'Yes' vote we'll face difficult negotiations," he said.

And Jeroen Dijsselbloem - head of the Eurogroup of finance ministers - dismissed as "completely false" a claim by Greek Finance Minister Yanis Varoufakis that a deal would be reached very shortly after the referendum, allowing banks to reopen on Tuesday.

Dijsselbloem said Athens had chosen a "very risky" path regardless of the outcome of the referendum, reports Reuters news agency.

Several European officials have complained in strong terms about Greece's abrupt decision to hold a referendum on the terms of a bailout offer that they say is no longer on the table.

"I urge you to say no to ultimatums, blackmail and the campaign of fear," Tsipras said in his address yesterday.

"Are we going to say yes or no to the slow death of society?"

But he insisted the referendum result would be accepted.

"Whatever we choose... Come Monday we are all together."

A poll published in Ethnos newspaper yesterday showed the two sides evenly split, with the "Yes" vote at 44.8% and the "No" vote at 43.4%.

But the same poll showed 74% in favour of staying in the euro, with just 15% choosing a return to a national currency.

Despite the campaigning, however, there is still a chance the referendum may be suspended.

Greece's top court, the Council of State, is due to rule on the legality of Sunday's vote and whether it breaches the constitution.