2014-11-07 00:00:00+06:00
BCL man, 3 others blackmail girl on Facebook
Police arrested on Wednesday two youths including a former leader of Bangladesh Chhatra League (BCL) at Chittagong University, who tried to blackmail a college student by threatening to disseminate her doctored nude photos on Facebook.

Rakib Uddin, 24, a master's student of history and executive member of the last BCL committee at CU, which is now dissolved, and Md Farman, 24, a student of Premier University, Chittagong, were arrested at the bus stand of Hathazari upazila in Chittagong, said police.

Rakib, the son of Bokhtiar Uddin, and Farman, the son of Md Harun, live in Hathazari's Fatepur, said Sub-inspector Russell Miah of Khulshi Police Station in the city.

The cop told The Daily Star that a student of a women's college in the city filed a general diary with the police station on October 26, accusing four youths including the above two and Raihan, brother of Rakib, and Munna, friend of Raihan, of blackmailing her.

The four became friends with her on Facebook a few months ago, said police.

She complained that Munna, the first of the four friends, threatened her on October 24 by phone that they would doctor her photos from Facebook and put them online if she did not pay them Tk 2 lakh.

SI Russell said detectives and Khulsi police jointly worked on the matter and baited the four by giving them the details of a Dutch Bangla Bank account and asking them to collect the money from an ATM booth on Wednesday.

Accordingly, the four youths came to the booth in Hathazari bus stand area around 8:00pm, and two of them got caught.

Meanwhile, Amit Kumar Basu, vice president of the last BCL committee at CU, confirmed to The Daily Star that Rakib was a leader of the student body.

He, however, asserted that BCL would not take the responsibility of his misdeed because there was no committee at CU now.

He added, “We sympathise with the victim and her family and condemn this kind of spiteful act... We demand exemplary punishment for the perpetrators.”

BCL dissolved its CU unit on June 10 after a factional fighting.