2017-01-28 12:14:13+06:00
Rampal hartal: Human chain protests assault on journos
In protest of the assault on two ATN News journalists during Thursday’s strike against Rampal power plant, journalists today formed a human chain in front of National Museum in Shahbagh.

Read More: DISASTER written on the wall

With black cloth tied over their faces, the journalists from different houses gathered in front of the museum around 11:00am and formed the hour-long human chain demanding quick justice for the victims.

Camera persons and photojournalists also kept their cameras on the streets in protest.

While giving speeches, many journalists blamed the “culture of impunity” for lack of justice and the continued assault on journalists.

Vice President of the Press Club, Shahed Chowdhury, said “in the beginning of police week, the prime minister asked the police to be people friendly. But how much of that request was kept when they attacked on-duty journalists without any fault on their part?”

Meanwhile, Manjurul Ahsan Bulbul, BFUJ president, in his statement at the human chain said “In Bangladesh journalists are killed, assaulted but there is no justice. That’s why these things keep happening over and over again. Journalists were even assaulted in the police station.”

“While we were waiting for police report, home minister said this issue was merely shoving each other,” he said.

Read: Police pounce on campaigners

“We reject this and demand the statement to be withdrawn,” Manjurul said adding “Previously some home ministers have been marked for their irresponsible statements and while our police are doing such a good job at tackling militancy, I don’t want our current home minister to be marked for this statement.”

“What sort of trend is this that journalists are being assaulted time to time and this results in promotion of the policemen,” Munni Shaha, journalist at the ATN News said in a speech at the human chain.

“Maybe the police wanted to cover the protest against Rampal differently that is why they beat up the journalists,” she said.