2012-07-27 00:00:00+06:00
Deplorable assault on media
We are appalled at the repetition of violence committed against reporters and journalists on the premises of Dhaka Medical College Hospital (DMCH). The first round of assault was unleashed by interns against members of the press on July 22 when they had gone to report on an alleged case of maltreatment of a patient. What is disturbing is the fact that medical college interns had ganged up to assault pressmen who were merely doing their job. The second round of attack that came on July 25 was a much more organised one. It is interesting to note that this time round, interns and doctors were allegedly aided by ruling party student activists and the unruly mob broke into the makeshift reporters' office set up in DMCH with the intention to do bodily harm and damage property. It is disturbing that the incident occurred in the presence of law enforcement officials who were silent spectators to this orgy of violence.

This is not the first time patients have complained about lack of service, malpractice or rude behaviour taking place in public hospitals. What is new however is the highhandedness shown by hospital authorities in dealing with media personnel on DMCH premises in that journalists were banned from entering without having proper permission. Barring journalists instead of taking action against errant doctors indicate acquiescing behaviour on the part of authorities. The repeat violence committed under the very noses of authorities is totally reprehensible and we condemn it. The 3-member enquiry committee formed to probe the incident must identify the perpetrators and take stringent measures against them. Authorities must also look into allegations of malpractice that keep resurfacing and bring to book those responsible.

In the long run, medical authorities have an obligation to the general public to straighten out the nagging problems associated with lack of proper service. Complaints against the medical service range from lack of care to malpractice. Now it seems that we are to add physical assault to the list of complaints. It is high time, that these irregularities were straightened out and in future we hope not to see a repetition of draconian measures being enforced on the media.