2017-04-20 00:00:00+06:00
BCL activists sued for assault, vandalism
Two cases were filed against activists of Bangaldesh Chhatra League yesterday following a clash between police and BCL activists when the latter went to protest the initiative of building a swimming pool at the port city's outer stadium on Tuesday.

Sub-inspector Mohiuddin Ratan of Kotwali Police Station filed one of the cases against five named and 400 to 450 unnamed persons. The case (no-45) was filed for assaulting police. However, no top BCL leaders were accused in the case.

The other case (no-46), filed by Shafiqul Islam Shwapan, supervisor of the swimming pool construction project, was filed against 59 named BCL leaders including its Chittagong city unit president Emran Ahammed Emu and general secretary Nurul Azim Rony. Besides, 400 to 500 other unnamed persons were accused in the case.

The allegations brought against the accused are attempt to murder, theft, trespassing and vandalism of properties.

“None of the accused could be arrested,” said OC Jashim Uddin of the police station. He claimed they were under various political pressure and declined to reveal any information regarding the cases.

Terming the allegations baseless, BCL GS Nurul Azim said, “We want to save the stadium. Also, to avoid public sufferings, we wanted to hold a rally inside the stadium when police barred our entry and swooped on us.”

“We have also submitted a memorandum to the commissioner of Chittagong Metropolitan Police in this regard,” he said.

He also said the Chittagong city unit of BCL yesterday postponed a rally they called protesting the police action. The rally was postponed as per a direction of the police headquarters that prohibited any meeting and rally in the city.

Meanwhile, when asked about the future of the construction project, Chittagong City Corporation Mayor and city unit Awami League General Secretary AJM Nasir Uddin said, “I see no obstacle. We have taken a decision to implement the project anyhow…”

Nasir said this while talking to reporters after inaugurating CJKS Mayor Gold Cup Inter-Ward Football Tournament at MA Aziz Stadium yesterday. “You saw law enforcers took a strict stance on Tuesday and they will show zero tolerance in this regard.”

“If anyone wants to obstruct the project, it will be tantamount to obstructing the development works of the government and would be adjudged a criminal act,” he said.

Around 20 persons including two policemen were injured in a clash between BCL and police when BCL activists went to protest the construction of a swimming pool at the outer stadium on Tuesday.