2014-11-01 00:00:00+06:00
JMB planned for terror attacks
India's National Investigation Agency (NIA) yesterday announced cash rewards for the arrest of 12 absconders wanted in an alleged conspiracy to target installations in Bangladesh. It also gave details of plans to carry out terror strikes in Bangladesh and India.

All the absconders and the three arrestees are members of banned militant outfit Jama'atul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), according to the NIA.

Meanwhile, the NIA, which is probing the October 2 explosion in Burdwan, will send a dossier to Bangladesh to help the country solve the case as it appears that JMB had plans to carry out a series of explosions in Bangladesh, sources said.

The dossier will include the interrogation report of the three accused -- Razira Biwi, Alina Biwi and Badrul Alam -- who have been arrested by police in West Bengal in connection with the case, sources added.

The interrogation reports of the arrestees gave a graphic detail about the past activities of the outfit and their future plans.

The three accused are believed to have told interrogators that explosive devices were transported to Bangladesh by absconders Sheikh Kausar and Kadir for terror activities.

The trio are said to have told interrogators that they were tasked with selecting hideouts, making Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) besides identifying, recruiting and indoctrinating possible cadres for the outfit from various madrasas.

The arrestees informed the interrogators that Sajid, one of the accused, had purchased a piece of land in Burdwan worth Rs 8.75 lakh to set up a new madrasa.

Sheikh Kausar had married an Indian girl named Jannat in 2007 and acquired Indian identity. He was the lead explosive device maker and supplied explosives to Shakil and Hassan.

One of the motives of JMB was to target young females from poor families to indoctrinate them into jihadi ideology and encourage them to marry Bangladeshi youth so that the men can gain residency in India and Indian identity.

JMB wanted to get some youth ready with arms and explosive training and take revenge against torture of Muslims, the NIA said.

According to the confessional statement of three arrested persons, one of the accused Amjad Ali provided explosives to the unit run by Shakil.

The NIA announced cash rewards of different amounts for any information leading to the arrest of the absconding accused of the case.

Among the absconders, Kausar, Nasirullah and Sajid, the main accused, are believed to be Bangladesh nationals while Talha Sheikh, Maulana Yusuf Sheikh, Amjad Ali Sheikh, Habibur Rahman Sheikh, Abdul Kalam, Burhan Sheikh, Rejaul Karim and Jahirul Shaikh are residents of West Bengal. Another accused Sahanur Alom is a resident of Assam.

JMB's network in West Bengal and Assam states was set up with the purpose of building an Islamic state in Bangladesh as well as in the three West Bengal districts -- Murshidabad, Nadia, Malda -- through armed struggle, official sources said.

The arrestees claimed that a Bangladeshi national, identified as Sajid, and wife Fatima were the “lead trainers” at Simulia where people were being trained in carrying out various terror activities.

Meanwhile, Indian government's Enforcement Directorate, which deals with foreign exchange violation cases, has registered a money laundering case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against suspected Indian operatives and JMB to probe "terror funding" crimes in the aftermath of the Burdwan blast.