None
AL MP shot dead
Ruling Awami League lawmaker Manzurul Islam Liton was shot dead by unknown assailants at his village home at Sundarganj upazila in Gainbandha Saturday evening.

He was declared dead at about 7:30pm by doctors at Rangapur Medical College Hospital where he was rushed at about 6:40pm, said Rangpur superintendent of police Mizanur Rahman.

Awami League central organising secretaries Jahangir Kabir Nanok and BM Mozammel Haque left for Gaibandha at about 9:30pm on Saturday.

Local traders shut their shops in the locality in panic immediately after the attack

The 48-year-old lawmaker came under attack at about 5:45pm when he was holding a meeting with his party fellows at the ground floor of his two-storey building at Uttar Shahabaj-Masterpara, police officials said.

Manzurul Islam Liton

‘The miscreants went to the house as visitors as many others of the locality did usually in the evening…They fired at least three bullets, at least two of which pierced Manzurul’s chest…he was rushed to Rangpur Medical College Hospital,’ said Gaibandha additional superintendent of police Md Rabiul Islam.

Assistant director of the hospital Bimal Chandra Roy told New Age that two bullets pierced Manzurul’s right chest and three others pierced the left hand.

‘He was shot from close distance,’ Bimal added.

Rabiul Islam said that motive for the killing was not clear and even there was no political tension in the locality.

‘The attackers were not masked and they started firing few minutes after they had greeted the lawmaker,’ said Rabiul, adding that the assailants fled the scene riding their motorbikes.

Sundarganj police station officer-in-charge Atiar Rahman said that at least five people took part in the murder and they used two motorbikes in the attack.

Rangpur police range deputy inspector general Khandaker Golam Faruk visited the crime scene.

Local union AL leader Moklesur Rahman said that they were suspired by the murder and it was unbelievable that the lawmaker could have been killed inside his house.

‘His wife [Khurshid Jahan Smirity] rushed him to hospital and she could say what exactly happened to him once she became normal,’ said Moklesur, adding that they came to know that the attackers had asked a passer-by about the direction of Manzurul’s the house.

Moklesur said that Manzurul was worried about his security and used to carry licensed firearms.

He said that the lawmaker’s firearm was seized after he allegedly shot at a boy in October 2015.

Manzurul grabbed the headlines after shooting eight-year-old schoolboy Shahadat Hossain Sourav at Sundarganj on October 2, 2015 allegedly under the influence of alcohol, trigging huge nationwide criticism. He secured bail in November 2015.

Gaibandha deputy commissioner Md Abdus Samad declined to comment immediately over the firearms.

The hospital authorities said that Manzurul’s post-mortem examination would be held today.

Jatiya Sangshad speaker Shihir Sharmin Chowdhury expressed her deep condolence.

In a release, she asked law enforcers to identify the killers and bring them to justice to establish rule of law.

The deputy speaker Fazle Rabbi Miah and chief whip ASM Firoj also expressed deep condolence, the release added.

Manzurul was elected lawmaker from Gaibandha-1 (Sundarganj) parliamentary constituency in the 2014 general elections, which was boycotted by all opposition parties.

A diploma engineer by education, Manzurul was director of Ananda Group of Industries.