None
Lack of transparency in tackling crimes, extremism
DEATH in ‘gunfight’, ‘crossfire’ and ‘encounter’, involving law enforcement agencies, has been a never-ending tale despite criticism of such incidents at home and abroad. Suspects come to be killed while law enforcers take them on arms recovery drives or to arrest their associates in hiding, while their associates try to snatch the suspects away from the law enforcers and even while nothing such happens. In most cases, the incidents of ‘gunfight’ death come with prosaic tales, with predictable changes in the narrative now and then, that people hardly buy into them any longer. And in many of the cases, families of the suspects, who come to be killed this way, contradict the narrative that law enforcers come up with. The latest such incident in the long series is a young man being killed in a ‘gunfight’ in gangland fighting in Jessore on Saturday. On the contrary, when the family of the suspect said that he had earlier been picked up by people in plain clothes, the police sought to explain that he had fled the police custody after his arrest.

While police action in such cases are devoid of any move for justice in a total disregard for the rule of law, there might be a wide gap between when happens on location and what people are told to believe in. There has been a complete lack of transparency in all such incidents, whether in fighting criminals or religious extremists the police way. In recent combats against religious extremists, children came to be killed. Even an army officer died. But what actually happened in these operations are still for people to know clearly. Such absence of transparency tend to give birth to speculations, even wild guesses, which are neither good for the law enforcement agencies nor for the rule of law and justice dispensation. Justice is trampled in such happenings, which are not beneficial for society and the state either. People have the right to know what has happened in all such cases. They will have the right to know of the happening if any such incident takes place in future. Whatever happens in such incidents warrant transparency by way of arrest, proper incrimination, well-substantiated investigation by competent prosecution and trial in the best interest of proper justice dispensation.

The government, under the circumstances, must do what it needs to fight crimes and religious extremism and to ensure security of people and society, also by stepping up its efforts on other fronts, legal, political, cultural and social. But it must do this in a transparent manner and by not stamping down the

rule of law.

More about: