None
Death for two Nikli Razakars for war crimes
The International Crimes Tribunal -1 on Wednesday handed down death sentences to Md Moslem Pradhan and Syed Md Hussain alias Hossain for committing genocide and crimes against humanity at different places under Nikli in the then Kishoreganj sub-division during the war of independence.

The presiding judge, Justice Anwarul Haque, pronounced the unanimous sentence in a full court hearing.

Two other judges Justice Md Shahinur Islam and Justice Md Shohrowardi read out parts of the summary judgement.

This was the 28th verdict in war crimes cases. For the ICT-1 it was the 17th verdict.

Moslem Pradhan, 67, was in the dock while Hussain, 64, is still absconding.

The tribunal kept it open for the government to execute the punishment either by hanging or by putting them in firing squad.

The tribunal directed the home secretary, and the inspector general of police to take help from Interpol to arrest Hussain, if necessary.

Hussain and Moslem were sentenced to death in a common charge for committing persecution, torture, plundering and arson at village Guruli, and killing 26 villagers.

The duo was awarded rigorous imprisonment until death in another charge for abduction and murder of freedom fighter Abdul Malek.

Hussain was sentenced to death in a charge for committing genocide, rape, abduction, confinement and torture at village Dampara and killing 34 Hindu people.

Hussain was also sentenced to suffer seven-year imprisonment for using coercion of Hindu people, five-year imprisonment for abduction and confinement of four people and 10-year imprisonment for committing inhuman acts caused to the bodies of two freedom fighters.

The tribunal said that upon execution of their death sentences, other sentences would get merged.

The punishment of imprisonment would run concurrently, it said.

Moslem was the Nikli union unit commander of infamous Razakar force.

Before the war of independence, Hussain was a member of Chhatra League, the student wing of Awami League.

During the war of independence, he joined the Pakistan Democratic Party and committed genocide and crimes against humanity at places of the then Kishoreganj sub-division, according to the prosecution.

The prosecution alleged that the common folks in the area used to call him as ‘Razakar Daroga’ of Nikli Thana.

His eldest brother Syed Md Hachhan alias Syed Md Hasan alias Hachhen Ali was tried in absentia and handed death sentence by the ICT-1 for committing genocide and crimes against humanity.

The tribunal on Tuesday set today for delivering the verdict in the war crimes case against the Razakars from Nikli.

The prosecution pressed the charges against the duo on December 3, 2015.

On January 7, 2016, the tribunal took the charges into cognizance.

The duo was indicted on six counts of war crimes on May 9, 2016.

On June 5, 2016, their trial began.

A total of 23 prosecution witnesses gave evidence against them. Only one defence witness testified for them.