2017-03-03 00:00:00+06:00
'Gunfight' in Bogra: 'Neo JMB chief for northern region' killed
Amijul Islam, killed in a “gunfight” with police in Bogra early on Thursday, was coordinating the activities of “Neo JMB” militants across the country and reorganising the outfit's military wing, police said.

He was made the organisation's North Bengal chief based on “seniority and expertise in military tactics” after the law enforcers had arrested his predecessor Fazlur Rahman Taher alias Raj in Chandpur Pabnapara village of Natore on January 13, Superintendent of Bogra police Md Asaduzzaman told The Daily Star yesterday.

The country's northern region is considered a stronghold of militants, the SP added.

A police press release said Amijul was killed in a “gunfight” at Jamnagar in Bogra's Sherpur upazila. Taking him along, a police team went there to recover arms.

The “gunfight” ensued around 3:00am when some “unidentified terrorists” tried to snatch Amijul. As he tried to flee, he was caught in the line of fire, read the release.

Law enforcers recovered a pistol, two magazines and three bullets from the spot. His body was later sent to Shahid Ziaur Rahman Medical College in Bogra for an autopsy.

A team of the Bogra Detective Brach of police arrested the 24-year-old from Kella Baroipara village in Rajshahi's Godagari upazila on Tuesday night.

Trying to escape arrest, Amijul had stabbed police constables Abdus Salam and Ismail Hossain.

The “Neo JMB” is an offshoot of the outlawed Jama'atul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB).

Jahangir Alam alias Rajib Gandhi, a mastermind behind the Gulshan café siege, had been the North Bengal chief of “Neo JMB” until his arrest at Tangail on January 13 last year. Khaled Hasan alias Badar Mama succeeded Jahangir as the unit chief. He was killed in a “shootout” with police in Bogra's Sherpur on August 29 last year, said the SP.

LINKS TO MILITANCY

Amijul was the military wing chief of the North Bengal “Neo JMB” in the post-Tamim Ahmed Chowdhury days of the outfit, according to the police press release.

Tamim, a mastermind of the Gulshan café attack, was killed during a raid on a Narayanganj house in August last year.

SP Asaduzzaman said Amijul was given the codenames Al Amin and Rony in “Neo JMB”. He frequented the JMB den at a house in Juanpur Kuthibari village in Bogra's Sherpur upazila.

Two militants, Tarikul Islam and Raisul Islam Russell alias Fardin, were killed as a grenade went off in the den on April 3 last year. Police filed a case against 31 militants in connection with the incident, added the SP.

“He had been involved in the JMB since 2013-14. Some of his family members were under police watch,” said the police official.

Gulshan café attack mastermind Jahangir Alam alias Rajib Gandhi adorned the post until his arrest at Tangail on January 13, 2016, while Khaled Hasan alias Badar Mama, 30, led from the post until his death in “shootout” with police in Sherpur of Bogra on August 29, 2016.

Talking to The Daily Star over the phone, Amijul's mother Laili Begum said she along with her husband Ataur Rahman left her village home hours after her son's arrest.

Amijul's father Durul Huda, a mason from Godagari's Sarangpur village, married her when she was 12. The couple split when Amijul was only four months old.

Amijul stayed with her mother at his maternal grandparents' house in Char Horishpur village of Chapainawabganj until he reached the age of 12.

After the death of her parents, Laili married Ataur and took Amijul with her to Bujruk Rajarampur village.

“After that, my son's life changed,” she said.

According to Laili, Amijul passed Dakhil exams from Norendrapur Dakhil Madrasa in 2008 and completed HSC in 2010 and degree (pass) course in 2013 from Godagari Degree College.

“He was an expert electrician. He used to do electrical works at homes,” she added.

Amijul went home around Tuesday noon. After having lunch with family members, he took rest. Around the time of Esha prayers, he went out with a bag in his hand.

“He told me that he was going to a nearby house for a repair job. There was some equipment in the bag. He was arrested on his way to that house,” said Laili.