2017-02-28 11:17:10+06:00
5 JMB militants get death for Kunio Hoshi killing
Five members of banned militant outfit Jama'atul Mujahideen Bangladesh were awarded death penalty for the killing of Japanese national Kunio Hoshi in Kaunia upazila of Rangpur in 2015.

Noresh Chandra Sarker, the judge of the Special Court in Rangpur, also acquitted another accused Abu Sayeed, 28, as allegations brought against him were not proved, our Dinajpur correspondent reports.

The death row convicts are Masud Rana, 21, alias Mamun alias Montri and Ihsak Ali, 25, of Poshua Tangailpara village under Pirgachha upazila; Liton Mia, 23, alias Rafiq of Gabtoli area under Bogra Sadar upazila; Shakhawat Hossain, 32, of Haldiachar in Gaibandha's Saghata upazila; and Ansar Ullah Ansari.

The death row convicts are Masud Rana, 21, alias Mamun alias Montri and Ihsak Ali, 25, of Poshua Tangailpara village under Pirgachha upazila; Liton Mia, 23, alias Rafiq of Gabtoli area under Bogra Sadar upazila; Shakhawat Hossain, 32, of Haldiachar in Gaibandha's Saghata upazila; and Ansar Ullah Ansari.

Read more: Japanese man shot dead in Rangpur

The first five convicts are in police custody while Ansar is yet to be arrested, said Public Prosecutor Rathish Chandra Bhowmik.

Two of three assailants arriving on a motorcycle shot Kunio Hoshi three times while he was going by a rickshaw to his grass farm at Alutari on the morning of October 3, 2015.

The 66-year-old had been living in the country for a year renting a house at Munshipara in Rangpur city.

Read also: 8 JMB men charged

Charges were framed against eight JMB members in mid-November 2016. Two other accused -- Nazrul Islam alias Bike Nazrul of Panchagarh and Saddam Hossain of Kurigram -- died in "gunfights" with law enforcers in Rajshahi and Dhaka on August 1, 2016 and January 5 this year respectively.

Fifty six witnesses have testified. Prosecution and defence lawyers completed placing arguments before Special Judge's Court of Noresh Chandra Sarkar yesterday afternoon.