2017-02-01 07:03:08+06:00
4 JMB ‘militants’ held in Jatrabari
- Firearms, explosives recovered



- One ‘chief of IT’



- Arrestees are active members of ‘Sarwar-Tamim group’



- Rented house as construction workers



- House owner, tenant picked up





The Rapid Action Battalion (Rab) today claimed to have arrested four members of banned militant outfit Jama'atul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) in Dhaka’s Jatrabari area.



After raiding a house in Dholaipar area around 6:20am, a team from Rab headquarters arrested the four and recovered firearms and explosives, Mizanur Rahman Bhuiyan, senior assistant director of Rab's legal and media wing, told The Daily Star.



The arrestees are: Md Ashfak e Azam alias Apel, chief of IT of a JMB faction which Rab called the “Sarwar-Tamim group”, Shahinuzzaman, Mahbubur Rahman and Ashraf Ali, according to the elite force.



Ashfak had a Masters degree in computer since from a private university and worked at different places, Rab said.



Shahinuzzaman, another active member of the group, took militant training along with others at a house in Mirpur and some other areas and in Chittagong, he received training on the use of small firearms, Mufti Mahmud Khan, Rab legal and media wing director, told journalists.



Ashfak received bullet injury on his leg during the training, the Rab official said.

Rented the house in January

Meanwhile, Rab official Mufti Mahmud told journalists that Ashfak is involved with JMB since 2011.



Identifying themselves as construction workers, they rented the house in Jatrabari on January 21 for Tk 7000 per month and shifted here on January 23, the Rab official said.



Two of them came to rent the house identifying them as brothers, who work at a construction firm, he said.



“They (the alleged militants) told my mother that they would fill up the Tenant Information form on February 1,” he said.



A team of Rab members came to the house around 4:00am and asked one of our ground floor tenants to open the collapsible gate, he added.



Police also detained the house owner, Sailu Begum, 45 and the ground-floor tenant Faruk for interrogation, Saber Hossain Anas, younger son of the land lord told The Daily Star.