2009-01-23 00:00:00+06:00
8 small-time 'thieves' held




Law enforcement agencies yesterday arrested eight people in connection with the sensational break-in at Bangladesh Railway (BR) headquarters in the capital on Saturday night.

Of them, seven are railway security guards who were suspended following the break-in.

Criminal Investigation Department (CID) arrested them from their houses in the city in the early hours yesterday while Detective Branch (DB) arrested the other at Gulshan.

DB officials said they also recovered Tk 5,000, a mobile phone and a microbus used for the theft from the possession of the arrestee -- Enamul Huq Khokan, 30.

He hails from Amanganda in Chouddagram upazila of Comilla.

The arrested railway security men are sub-inspector Anwar Hossain Dewan, Havilder Sayedul Alam and guards Monju Miah, Shamim Ahmed, Shamsul Alam, Mokammel Huq and Monjur Miah. They were produced in court yesterday and placed on a three-day remand each.

Contacted, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) of the CID Fazlul Kabir said, " We arrested them (security men) on suspicion. If found not guilty, they would be set freed."

Talking to this correspondent at the office of Dhaka Metropolitan Police (DMP) commissioner, arrested Khokan identified himself as a microbus driver and narrated the break-in.

" I and four others of our seven-member gang entered the building through a window by scaling the western wall at about soon after midnight and stayed there till 4:20 am …Two other two were waiting at Paltan with a microbus by which we fled away with the booty."

They did not take away any files from the office, and they targeted the building where security measures were insufficient, he said.

Khokan also said he got Tk 11,000 and a mobile phone as his share in the booty. He had already spent Tk 6,000, and DB personnel recovered Tk 5,000 from him.

Deputy Commissioner (DC) of the DB (North) Mainul Hasan, when contacted, said Khokan and his accomplices are professional thieves, and he already disclosed names of the six others.

DMP Commissioner Naim Ahmed said investigation into the case was at a preliminary stage.

"So far, we did not get any information about involvement of any railway person and theft any files…Our interrogation is on and let us see."

Intelligence sources however said if the person arrested by the DB confesses his involvement, there was no necessity of arrest of the railway guards.

The has been shifted to the DB from the CID. Earlier on Tuesday, it was transferred to the CID from Shahbagh police.

Meanwhile, a probe committees formed by the communications ministry yesterday submitted its report.

Joint Secretary Nasrin Akter, who headed the probe body, said they made some recommendations to strengthen railway security measures.

A probe body formed by the BR authorities, which was asked to submit its report yesterday, did not do so.

Contacted last night, Habib Ahmed, joint director general of the BR, who heads the body, said, "Our investigation is about to end and we are hopeful that the report would be submitted by Sunday."

Meanwhile, criminals broke into 56 rooms of the BR Bhaban and took away valuables and money. The BR authorities suspended seven security personnel for failure and negligence in discharging their duties.

Moreover, a gang took away various documents from the Chittagong office of the BR recently.