2017-02-15 00:00:00+06:00
'Gunfights': 'Neo JMB' man among 3 killed
Three alleged criminals were killed and two others injured in “gunfights” with police in Bogra, Dhaka and Cox's Bazar yesterday.

The man who was killed in Bogra was a "leader of militant group Neo JMB," and "a close aide" of Gulshan café attack mastermind Jahangir alias Rajib Gandhi, who was arrested by police in Tangail, reports our Bogra correspondent, quoting police.

"Neo JMB" is an offshoot of banned militant outfit Jama'atul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB).

The dead, Abu Musa alias Abujar alias Abu Talha alias Samiul, 32, was the chief of Pabna, Kushtia, Natore and Sirajganj region of "Neo JMB".

Musa also stood accused in cases filed in connection with killing homeopath Mir Sanaullah in Kushtia Sadar upazila and shopkeeper Shunil Gomez at Bonpara Bazaar in Natore, police said.

Nur-e-Alam Siddiki, officer-in-charge of Kahaloo Police Station, said some criminals suddenly opened fire targeting their van when they reached Patonja village around 2:45am yesterday. He along with his team was returning to the police station after a patrol.

Police then returned fire, triggering a "gunfight". After the "gun battle", they found the body of Musa lying on the spot. The others fled, the police official said.

Law enforcers also claimed to have recovered a pistol, three bullets and several sharp weapons from the spot.

Two cases were filed with Kahaloo Police Station in connection with attack on police, said Sonaton Chakrabatry, additional superintendent of police (A circle) in Bogra.

In another incident, an alleged robber was killed in what police claimed to be a gunfight in Shankhari Bazar of old Dhaka.

The dead, Sagor alias Dakat Sagor, stood accused in at least five cases. He died during a raid in Radhika Mohan Boshak Lane around 2:45am, Shahen Shah Mamun, assistant commissioner (Kotwali zone) of the Dhaka Metropolitan Police, told The Daily Star.

A police team went to the spot, acting on a tip-off that some robbers were preparing to commit a robbery at a jewellery shop in Shankhari Bazar, he said.

Around 2:30am, the police team challenged six to seven youths, finding their movement suspicious. They then hurled a crude bomb at the law enforcers.

At one stage, the robbers opened fire, prompting them to retaliate that triggered a "gunfight", said the police official.

All of the robbers except Sagor managed to flee. He was found lying on the street and taken to Mitford Hospital where doctors declared him dead, the police official said.

Police also claimed to have recovered a pistol and two bullets from the spot.

In Cox's Bazar, an alleged criminal was killed in a “shootout” with police in Kerontoli area of Moheshkhali upazila, reports our correspondent there.

Deceased Abdus Sattar alias Sabbir, 52, was from Majher Para village of the upazila.

Pradip Kumar Das, officer-in-charge of Moheshkhali Police Station, said police as part of their regular patrol went to the spot around 4:00am. Sensing presence of the law enforcers, some criminals opened fire. Police then fired back, triggering the "gunfight".

Sattar was hit by bullets during the "gun battle". Doctors of Moheshkhali Upazila Health Complex declared him dead when he was taken there, the police official said.

Sattar was an arms trader and listed criminal, the OC said, adding that he stood accused in two cases.

Five policemen were injured in the incident. They were admitted to Moheshkhali Upazila Health Complex, he added.

Six firearms and 15 bullets were also recovered from the spot, police claimed.

Two suspected criminals were wounded in another "gunfight" with police in Matarbari area of the upazila around 5:00am yesterday.

They are Wazuddin, 33, and Nasiruddin, 29, of Maizpara village.

AKM Iqbal Hossain, superintendent of Cox's Bazar police, said police also recovered eight firearms, 30 bullets and two sharp weapons from the spot.

The injured were admitted to Moheshkhali Upazila Health Complex, the SP said.