2017-01-16 00:00:00+06:00
‘Neo JMB' Leader Jahangir: ‘He led many killing missions in North'
“Neo JMB” leader Jahangir Alam, who was one of the masterminds behind the Gulshan café attack, was also the chief of the killing squad with expertise in using sharp weapons and hacking people to death.

The key militant suspect adopted his organisational name Rajib Gandhi to confuse law enforcers. Jahangir became the chief of the squad, which the militant outfit terms “Ishaba group”, counterterrorism officials claimed yesterday.

In 2014, Jahangir was a member of JMB and he had slit the throat of his then “boss” Nazrul Islam, they claimed.

Nazrul, a shura member of mainstream Jama'atul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), was killed in Gaibandha following a row over the leadership of the banned militant outfit, they said.

Jahangir was executed JMB leader Abdul Awal's cook. After the execution of seven JMB leaders, including Awal, in 2007, Jahangir became a close accomplice of Nazrul and also received militant training from Nazrul.

In early 2013, JMB split into two factions, and Jahangir became an organiser and also a close accomplice of “Neo JMB” Chief Coordinator Tamim Ahmed Chowdhury.

Arrested on Friday night in Tangail, Jahangir is now being interrogated by CTTC officials during an eight-day remand.

Initially, Nazrul's murder left little clue for detectives, but the law enforcers later came to know about his fellow JMB members' link following the arrest of some “Neo JMB” leaders and activists.

After the killing of Nazrul, Jahangir joined “Neo JMB”, an offshoot of JMB, following a meeting in a northern district. Chief “Neo JMB" Coordinator Tamim also attended the meeting in 2014, police officials said.

One of the “Neo JMB” spiritual leaders, Maulana Abul Kashem, teacher of a madrasa in Joypurhat, played a key role in introducing Jahangir to Tamim. Kashem has knowledge of religious issues and used to preach to the members of the outfit.

However, Monirul Islam, chief of Counter Terrorism and Transnational Crime (CTTC) unit of the Dhaka Metropolitan Police, yesterday said they were still trying to identify and arrest Kashem.

“Jahangir is also a member of the four-member board of Neo JMB, which makes decision on who is going kill whom in northern Bangladesh,” a high official of the CTTC unit told The Daily Star yesterday.

Because of Jahangir's expertise in recruiting members and targeted killings, Tamim appointed Jahangir as operational commander to carry out attacks on police in early July, days after the Gulshan café attack in which 20 hostages, mostly foreigners, were killed.

Monirul earlier said Jahangir was wanted in 22 militant attack cases which happened in northern Bangladesh. He either directly took part or gave instructions to kill people.

A high official of CTTC unit, requesting anonymity, said they were now looking for at least two dozen more “Neo JMB” leaders and activists, including at least four high-level leaders.

High-level leaders Ripon and Khaled are believed to have fled to India and Sohel Mahfuz is believed to be in hiding somewhere in Bangladesh, said the official. Sohel is a close relative of Nurul Islam Marzan.

Law enforcers have been on the hunt for Sohel for many years.

Also known as “Hathkata Mahfuz”, Sohel joined the banned organisation during its initial years under the command of first JMB chief Shaykh Abdur Rahman.

Abdur Rahman along with five others, including his deputy Siddiqul Islam alias Bangla Bhai and brother Ataur Rahman Sunny, was executed on March 29 in 2007. After the executions of some top JMB leaders, Sohel became a member of the JMB's Majlis-e-Shura, the highest policy-making body of the outfit.

Beside this, investigators are also trying to find “Nayan”, whose name appeared in the confessional statement of Maj (retd) Jahid's wife Jebunnahar Shila.

She mentioned that Jahid informed her that he had joined “Neo JMB” activities when he had contact with Nayan, who has a PhD in chemistry from Canada.

Investigators are also trying to arrest the leaders of “Neo JMB” Dawati (recruiting) group, which according to them is still working to reorganise the outfit activities.