2012-04-18 00:00:00+06:00
2 Indians held with smuggled tortoises




Two Indians were arrested with 300 Indian star tortoises and 115 different species of turtles at Shahjalal International Airport in the capital yesterday.

The arrested, Zulfikar Ali Hasnayeen and Abhijit Das, were trying to smuggle those tortoises and turtles, packed in two suitcases, into Bangkok.

Tipped off, Tapan Kumar Dey, forest conservator at Wildlife Management and Nature Conservation Division, warned the customs and airport authorities about the smuggling attempt.

Zulfikar Ali Hasnayeen holds Indian passport Z-2218122 and Abhijit Das, who Tapan Dey believes was new to the syndicate, holds Indian passport K-0467869.

Abul Kashem, custom officials of Shahjalal International Airport, yesterday filed a case with the airport police station in this regard.

The turtles and tortoises were taken to the forest department's Agargaon office from where those would be moved to Dula Hazra Safari Park in Cox's Bazar, he said.

The turtles seized yesterday have huge ornamental, medicinal and food value in different countries. News agency AFP reports that the seized turtles are worth around $37,000 in the international black market.

Poaching and trading of exotic animals have increased in recent months, officials said. Since 2010, seven attempts including yesterday's to smuggle wildlife have been foiled by the customs and immigration officials of Dhaka airport and destination airports including Bangkok and Kuala Lumpur.

Of the turtles, 300 were rare Indian star tortoises, 90 three-keeled turtles and 25 were Indian roofed turtles, the forest official said. Indian star turtles are very popular as exotic pets in gardens.

All these species are available in Bangladesh and India.

SM Rashid, the chief executive of Centre for Advanced Research in Natural Resources & Management, said there were at least seven species of turtles seized by customs.

Beside the Indian star tortoise, there were six other species of turtles; they are black turtle, tricarinate hill turtle, spotted pond turtle, crowned turtle, Sylheti roofed turtle and brown roofed turtle, he told The Daily Star via email yesterday.