2009-08-24 23:00:00+07:00
Smuggling surges
Essential commodities, including edible soybean oil, onion, garlic and rice, are being smuggled into Myanmar through at least 23 border points of Teknaf and Ukhia upazilas in the district, sources concerned said.

In exchange, banned tablet Yaba, narcotics, sexual stimulant and other items are coming into Bangladesh.

Sources said about 180 smugglers in 25 syndicates are conducting the illegal trade of crores taka through the border points. Some commodities are recovered by the security forces but most of the goods are smuggled safely.

The points include Nila, Natmora Para, Chowdhury Para, Leda, Jadimura, Domdomia, Wabrang, Moulvibazar, Hoaikhong, Kanjar Para, Minabazar, Jhimongkhali, Lomba Beel, Ulubonia, Keruntoli, Naitongpara, Kaukhalipara, Jalia Para, Nazir Para, Sabrang, Naya Para, Mistri Para under Teknaf upazila and Palong Khali, Amtoli, Rahmater Beel, Balu Khali, Anjumanpara, Ghumdhum under Ukhia upazila.

The smuggled items include mostly edible palm oil, soybean oil, onion, garlic and rice while 'current' nets, Yaba tablets, pistachios, beer, wine bottles, dried fish, rifles, clothes, lungis, tea leaves, powder milk, sugar and polythene bags and some other items are smuggled in from Myanmar.

Sources said the BDR jawans of Teknaf 42 Rifle Battalion have seized goods worth about Tk 3 crore during this month till August 22. Five smugglers were arrested and 13 boats were seized during the period.

The seized smuggled goods include 31 maunds of onion, 1,013 litres of soybean and palm oil, five maunds of garlic, three maunds of rice, three maunds of potato, 1,467 kg 'current' nets, 327 bottles of wine, 319 litres of country made liquor, 358 pieces of lungi and thami, five maunds of pistachio nut, 1,138 packets of polythene and 11 sacks of urea fertiliser.

During the last June and July, the BDR men seized goods including onion, edible oil, garlic and rice worth about Tk 5 crore while being smuggled.

Deputy Commander of Teknaf 42 Rifles Battalion Major Shahinur Rahman confirmed it and said the jawans have been kept on alert so that edible oil, garlic, rice, fertiliser and other essential commodities can not be smuggled into Myanmar during the month of Ramadan.

Acting Mayor of Teknaf Municipality Md Ismail said during the month of Ramadan the demand for edible oil, diesel, vermilion, oil and other commodities increase in Myanmar state of Arakan. Bangladeshi smugglers take this opportunity. As a result, a crisis of these items is created in Teknaf area and prices go up.

Teknaf Upazila Parisad Chairman Md Shafiq Miah said awareness activities are being carried out among the people of the area besides keeping the BDR men on alert to combat the smuggling.