2013-08-06 00:20:14+06:00
Trespass, smuggling, clashes and crimes now order of the day
Indian goods being carried on bicycles through the Bangladesh border in Mogholhat under Lalmonirhat Sadar upazila as several border points in the area now serve as safe routes for smuggling amid lax vigilance by the law enforcers of the two countries. PHOTO: STAR

Border areas of Mogholhat and Durgapur under Lamonirhat district often serve as routes for illegal entry of Indian citizens and smuggling of arms and drugs, thanks to the laxity in vigilance by Border Guard Bangladesh and Indian Border Security Force.

The situation often gives rise to criminal activities, including clashes between Indian intruders and local Bangladeshis.

Several hundred villagers from Indian villages Nagortari, Doribas and Jaridharla under Cooch Behar district in Pashchimbanga regularly come to Mogholhat Bazar, Durgapur Bazar and Durakuti Hat in Bangladesh without visas, locals said.

This has been a practice for long, as there is no marketplace in the three Indian villages and those are separated by the Dharla River from mainland India, they said.

In the last one month, 11 clashes took place near the border inside Bangladesh territory.

In the night of July 21, a group of Indian criminals aided by their Bangladesh associates, attacked two Bangladeshi families, injured nine people and vandalised and looted their five houses.

On July 17, Indian criminals kidnapped Bangladeshi trader Sudhir Chandra on Mogholhat border and he was freed for ransom of Tk one lakh on July 20.

On July 14, Indian smugglers assaulted Bangladeshi citizens Nur Hossain, Azibor Rahman, Shamsul Islam and six others on Mogholhat border, apparently centring smuggling of Indian contraband items, locals said.

“Some Indians, including identified criminals Bhokra Babu, Emdadul, Mazidul, Ayub Ali often threaten Bangladesh people if they protest illegal trade in the border areas,” said Moslem Uddin Sarker, a member of Mogholhat union parishad.

Seeking anonymity, a few personnel of Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) at Mogholhat, said they know everything but do not take actions due to pressure from local politicians. Besides, there are no directions on the matter from the higher authorities.

Lt Col Mahbubur Rahman, commanding officer of Lalmonirhat 15 BGB Battalion, said, "Bangladeshis living close to the border should inform the BGB whenever they see Indians inside Bangladesh. We will increase vigilance on the border."

Additional District Magistrate Abu Noor Md Shamsuzzaman said the district administration has already asked BGB in Lalmonirhat to stop illegal entry of the Indians.

Kamal Uddin Ahmed, additional home secretary, said, "We have no reports of any criminal incidents or illegal entry of the Indians into Bangladesh through the Lalmonirhat border. BGB has not informed us of anything like this. We will see the matter."