2015-09-17 00:00:00+06:00
Migrants clash with Hungary riot police
Hungarian riot police yesterday fired tear gas and water cannon to force migrants back from the Serbia-Hungary border.

Hundreds of people massed at a closed crossing point near the Serbian town of Horgos, and were involved in a tense stand-off with police on the other side of the border.

Some migrants threw missiles, including stones and water bottles, reports BBC.

Many of the migrants want to reach Germany, amid divisions within the EU over how to deal with the crisis.

Tens of thousands of people crossed into Hungary to enter the Europe Union's Schengen zone, which normally allows people to travel between member countries without restrictions.

Hungary closed its entire border with Serbia on Tuesday after making it illegal to enter the country or damage a new razor-wire border fence. The country's courts have started fast-track trials of arrested migrants.

Serbia's foreign ministry protested over the firing of tear gas and water cannon into its territory.

The Hungarian government says 20 police officers were injured as migrants tried to break through a gate, and a spokesman accused migrants of using children as "human shields".

Several people received treatment from the Serbian ambulance service, some suffering the effects of tear gas.

Migrant Amir Hassan, from Iraq, said: "We fled wars and violence and did not expect such brutality and inhumane treatment in Europe."

United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said he was "shocked" by the "unacceptable" treatment of migrants.

But Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said he considered it "unacceptable that an aggressive group of immigrants took such an action against Hungarian police. The Hungarian police's duty is to protect Hungary from the entry of such violent persons."

Serbian minister Aleksandar Vulin, visiting the scene, said the migrants' frustration was understandable after Hungary closed the border.

"Hungary must show it is ready and capable to accept these people," he said.

Serbia has said it will send additional police to its border with Hungary.

The UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Antonio Guterres, called on the Hungarian authorities to ensure "unimpeded access" for people fleeing wars and persecution.

Hungary's hardline anti-migrant stance has been sharply criticised, with the UN refugee agency saying it could be in violation of the 1951 Refugee Convention, says AFP.

Meanwhile, Croatia has said it will allow migrants to travel on to northern Europe, opening up a new route a day after Hungary sealed its border with Serbia.

A steady stream of migrants is crossing into Croatia from Serbia, with some of those stranded on Serbia's border with Hungary now using the same route.

Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic said: "We are ready to accept and direct those people... to where they apparently wish to go."