2012-06-10 00:00:00+06:00
Communal riot in Myanmar
The Border Guard Bangladesh has increased patrolling and vigilance along the border with Myanmar in the wake of a riot between Rohingya Muslims and majority Buddhists in the neighbouring country.

"The patrolling has been intensified and forces have been made alert more than the normal process so that the violence in the neighbouring country does not affect border security", Maj Gen Anwar Hossain, director general of BGB, told The Daily Star yesterday evening.

Quoting the Myanmarese media, AFP reported that sectarian violence between Buddhists and Muslims had left at least seven dead.

Police and military units deployed in Rakhine state -- which borders Bangladesh -- had "systematically controlled" unrest, which erupted on Friday and saw hundreds of Buddhist villagers' homes set ablaze, state television said and added, "Stability has been restored since Saturday morning."

Unrest flared on Friday when at least four Buddhists were killed in riots in Rakhine, home to large numbers of Rohingya, a stateless Muslim group described by the UN as one of the world's most persecuted minorities.

AFP said, according to government officials, a second wave of violence swept through remote villages early yesterday, as more Rakhine homes were torched, forcing villagers to flee to temporary shelters in Maungdaw town.

Security forces flooded western Myanmar yesterday to prevent further outbreaks of sectarian violence between Buddhists and Muslims which have left at least seven dead, according to state media.

Two government officials said armed Rohingya had burned Rakhine villages in the early hours of yesterday.

"They came from the neighbouring country by boats," one of the officials told AFP, speaking on condition of anonymity, hinting at Bangladesh.

Talking to The Daily Star, BGB chief Maj Gen Anwar Hossain rejected the allegation of the Myanmar official outright.

Myanmar, which considers the Rohingya as foreigners and not one of the nation's ethnic groups, has an estimated 750,000 Rohingya, living mainly in Rakhine, according to the UN.