2012-04-13 00:00:00+06:00
Runaway bus with thieves hits barrier, kills cop
A fleeing bus carrying stolen cows and five thieves hit a police barricade on Begum Rokeya Sarani in the capital's Agargaon, killing a cop and injuring four others early yesterday.

The dead is Belayet Hossain, 42, assistant sub-inspector of Sher-e-Bangla Nagar Police Station.

Among the injured, constables Mizanur Rahman Mizan, 37, and Mohammad Yunus, 52, of the same police station have been admitted to National Institute of Diseases of the Chest and Hospital (NIDCH), said police.

Two unidentified passengers of a CNG-run auto-rickshaw also sustained minor injuries.

A team of Mirpur police around 4:30am started chasing the bus in front of the fire brigade station at Mirpur-10 on information that a gang of thieves was coming to a market at Mirpur-11 to sell stolen cows, said Zakir Hossain Molla, officer-in-charge of Sher-e-Bangla Nagar Police Station.

The bus passed through different roads in Pallabi, Mirpur-13, Mirpur-10, Old Airport Road at Tejgaon and Bijoy Sarani.

Another police team around 5:15am blocked Begum Rokeya Sarani near Sher-e-Bangla Nagar High School with a van, a bus and a CNG-run auto-rickshaw.

As the cops signalled the driver to stop, he sped up the vehicle further and hit the auto-rickshaw in the barricade.

The auto-rickshaw skidded off on the cops, causing the casualties.

The fleeing bus managed to go past the barricade and travelled around half a kilometre more, until police on a chasing microbus fired four bullets at the gang to force the bus driver stop the vehicle near the Islamic Foundation office at Agargaon.

Law enforcers arrested the bus driver Mohammad Sentu, 26, but his five accomplices managed to escape.

Police seized the vehicle, recovered the cows and found some tools used to steal cows.

The driver admitted to stealing the cows from three houses at Mawa in Munshiganj.

Deceased ASI Belayet was born in Lohagara of Narail. He joined police department in 1991 and was posted at Sher-e-Bangla Nagar Police Station two years back.

He is survived by his wife and their two children.