2014-04-08 00:00:40+06:00
Kidnappers mostly known faces
A known face -- a close relative, friend, neighbour or an acquaintance -- is more likely to be your child's abductor than listed criminals, reveals a study by The Daily Star.

The study, which analysed abduction reports published in this newspaper over the last 15 months, shows that the perpetrators kidnap children and minor girls for ransom, sexual harassment and rape, taking advantage of their helplessness.

Alarming still, abducted children have a fifty-fifty chance of survival compared to sixty-forty amongst adults.

Between January last year and March this year, 64 child abduction cases were reported in this newspaper. The other major victims of abduction are fishermen and traders.

"In almost a cent percent of instances, children are kidnapped by someone they know," said Habibur Rahman, director, media wing of the Rapid Action Battalion (Rab), supporting The Daily Star findings.

"It is easier to abduct children as they can be easily lured to go outside. They also cannot put up much resistance.

"Moreover, parents stand ready to do everything they can in return for their child's life and safety," he added.

In many cases, however, parents cannot save their children even after paying the ransom. Kidnappers often kill them upon receiving the money.

Asked why, AS Mahmood, director of Bangladesh Shishu Adhikar Forum, said there was no research on this in the country.

"But I guess that children, once released, are more likely to disclose the identity of the abductors, which adults might refrain from doing in fear of retribution. So the kidnappers do not want to take the risk of keeping the kids alive," he said.

Mahmood said that it was easier for a relative or a friend than a complete stranger to have access to children, who are often abducted for trafficking inside or outside the country.

However, he thinks, close relatives act mostly as carriers who hand over the children to real criminals or traffickers. "They are often unaware of the ultimate fate of the children."

While the ransom amount ranges from Tk 40,000 to Tk 1 crore, female victims, especially those aged between 13 and 18 years, are abducted not for money. In most cases, they are raped or forced into marriage.

According to The Daily Star findings, young girls constitute 60 percent of the abducted children and in 57 percent cases, the perpetrators are known to them. Half the female victims are abducted by their stalkers.

Of the total, one in every five children is abducted for money.

"Teenage girls are often abducted and then forced into marriage, taking advantage of their emotional state," said Nina Goswami, senior deputy director of Ain o Salish Kendra (ASK).

This way, abductors get away with the crime when the parents file cases, she observed.

Nina said the abductors force the young girls into marriage by saying that society would not accept them since they had been kept captive. After such marriages, girls are often forced into sexual intercourse, which is actually rape.

Frequency of abduction is relatively high in Lalmonirhat and Bogra districts, though no concentration of the incidence of abduction was found in any particular region of the country.

A significant number of abducted children are madrasa students and they come from poor families, shows the analysis.

Both the perpetrators and victims come from low income groups, said Mahmood, adding that parents in poor families are often not much attentive to their children. This might be a reason why 25 percent of the children are abducted from their homes.

"Poor, uneducated families also do not seek help from law enforcement agencies and the media. As a result, it becomes easy for the abductors to get away with the crime," he said.

The study also reveals that 40 percent of the student victims are abducted from their way to or from school, which matches with Goswami's reference to some of the abduction cases ASK handled.

"Abductors often develop an acquaintance with teenage girls on their way to or from school," she said, adding that girls, not knowing the consequences, often elope with these men and fall into the trap of false and forced marriages.

Mahmood called for solving social issues such as unemployment, lack of education and awareness and weak family bonds as a way of preventing child abduction.

Rab's media wing director, however, called upon parents to be more watchful of their children and the company they keep.

To prevent abduction of young girls, Nina suggests that the law related to child marriage should declare marriage of a minor illegal so that the perpetrators cannot escape punishment.

"People like notary public or Kazis, who are involved in administering these marriages, should play a more responsible role and refrain from allowing these marriages to take place," she said.