2013-08-01 00:17:21+06:00
3 'thieves' killed in mob beating
Two 'drug-addict' youths were beaten to death by villagers suspecting them as thieves in Rajshahi and Comilla districts yesterday and the day before.

In Rajshahi, the incident took place at Bolihar village in Bagha upazila early yesterday.

Victim Sharif Uddin, 28, was unemployed son of Kader Ali of Chawk Amodpur, said Abul Khair, OC of Bagha police station, reports our staff correspondent.

Police recovered his body at around 3:00am and sent it to morgue for autopsy.

According to locals, night watchmen caught Sharif red handed at midnight while he was stealing the bicycle of Shahbaz Ali from his house in the area.

Angry locals started beating him during interrogation leaving him unconscious at around 2:00am.

Abu Khair said, Sharif, father of three daughters, was a drug-addict and was jailed by a mobile court for taking heroin five months ago.

Sharif's wife Chumki Begum filed a murder case in this regard, accusing unnamed villagers with Bagha police station.

In Comilla, a drug addict youth was beaten to death by locals suspecting him to be a thief at Khanebari village in Titas upazila on Tuesday night.

Mir-Buri identified as Anisur Rahman, 22, he was son of Abdul Salam of Kalakandi village of the upazila, reports our correspondent.

Quoting villagers, police said, on Sunday night, Anisur went to Khanebari village to meet a friend where locals beat him up severely suspecting him to be a thief.

Unconscious, Anisur was rushed to a local hospital where he succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday night.

Police recovered the body and sent it to morgue for autopsy.

Md Nabir Hossain, officer in-charge of Titas police station, said the body bore injury marks due to merciless beating.

He vowed to take legal steps against the offenders.

MANIKGANJ

Mob in Manikganj beat another man to death, suspecting him a thief at Garadia village under Singair upazila early hours of yesterday.

The deceased was identified as Abdul Khalek, 35, son of Maha Ali of Arangabad village in the upazila, reports our correspondent.

Locals said Khalek and another man entered the house of Afsar Ali of the Garadai village at around 1:00 am.

Hearing screams, locals rushed to the house and chased the thieves.

They caught Abdul Khalek from near a canal but the other one managed to flee.

Locals recovered gold ornaments from Abdul Khalek and gave him a good beating leaving him dead on the spot.