2014-03-05 00:01:44+06:00
Killed after kidnap
Sultan

Concealing his real identity, an accused in the case filed for abduction and killing of Chittagong businessman Jamaluddin Ahmed Chowdhury had holed up for nine long years in Cox's Bazar.

Detective Branch of Chittagong Metropolitan Police arrested the accused, Sultan Driver alias Kala Sultan alias Nurul Islam, at Lighthouse Para in the district town on Sunday night.

Sultan told the detectives that Jamaluddin was killed after abduction on orders from Abul Kashem alias Kashem Chairman, a former chairman of Kanchan Nagar union in Fatikchhari upazila. Kashem is now absconding.

Sultan had managed a national identity card with a different name, said Babul Akhter, additional deputy commissioner (detective branch) of the CMP.

He added that they had first become confused as Sultan identified himself as Nurul Islam hailing from South Madarsa in Hathazari.

The DB handed over Sultan to Fatikchhari Police Station on Monday. Police produced him before a court the same day, and the court sent him to jail.

Abul Kashem

Jamaluddin, a former BNP leader of Chittagong south district unit, was abducted on the way to his residence in Chandgaon residential area from his business firm at Chawkbazar in the port city on July 24, 2003.

The abductors later demanded Tk 1 crore from his family members.

Sultan also told the detectives that the abductors had taken Jamaluddin to Fatikchhari and handed him over to Sultan and three others -- Kala Mahbub, Lomba Mahbub and Tengra Osman -- in Chara Batal area.

The victim was held hostage at Kanchan Nagar till his killing, said ADC Babul, quoting Sultan.

On August 24, 2005, Rapid Action Battalion unearthed the skeleton of Jamaluddin at Satkainda Tilla, a remote hilly site in the upazila.

Another accused -- Kala Mahbub-- who was arrested earlier, showed the spot to the Rab.

On July 20, 2006, Criminal Investigation Department submitted charge sheet in the case accusing 16 including Kashem Chairman.

But plaintiff Chowdhury Farman Reza, Jamaluddin's son, moved narazi (non-acceptance) petition against the charge sheet as the name of Maruf Nizam, whom he suspected as the mastermind in the abduction, was not included in it.

Following a court order, CID on August 16, 2006, submitted a supplementary charge sheet, accusing the same 16 people.

A few days later in the same year, the High Court issued a stay order on the hearing on the narazi petition.