2011-10-09 00:00:00+06:00
Trader kidnapped and killed, another stabbed to death
Kidnappers killed a trader in Narail yesterday while criminals stabbed another trader to death in Mymensingh on Friday.

Body of a local trader, kidnapped two days ago, was recovered by Lohagara police from a pond at Madinapara village near Lohagara Bazar yesterday, reports our Narail correspondent.

The deceased was identified as Biplob Mollah, 21, son of Abul Hossain Mollah of Chorbokjuri village under Lohagara upazila.

Family sources said Biplob, owner of a stationary shop at Kalna Bazar, had a longstanding enmity with Sagor Meer, Liton Meer, Hanna Meer, Mintu Meer, Monowar Meer and Kamrul Sheikh of his village.

One of them demanded illegal toll from Biplob. Biplob refused and informed the matter to his family members and local union parishad chairman. This angered the gang for which they threatened him, they said.

According to parents, on Thursday at around 6.00pm, Biplob went out of house with his motorcycle and since then remained missing. Yesterday his body was found in a pond with his hands and legs tied with rope.

Investigation officer SI Toiwob Ali Khan said, “Biplob was suffocated in pond water". We arrested Sagor Meer on suspicion, he added.

In Mymensingh, local traders blocked Dhaka-Mymensingh highway yesterday noon following the killing of a trader in Trishal upazila bus stand area Friday night.

Sabuj, 26, owner of a tea-stall and a resident of Darirampur village in Trishal upazila, was killed by a local gang at 9pm on Friday, reports UNB.

Police quoting locals said, criminals attacked and stabbed Sabuj at one stage of altercation over a trifling matter, leaving him seriously injured.

Later, Sabuj succumbed to his injuries at Mymensingh Medical College Hospital. A case was filed.

As the news spread, angry local traders formed a human chain demanding immediate arrest of the killers.

They also put up a barricade on Dhaka-Mymensingh highway at 12:30pm, disrupting traffic for about an hour.