None
crime
Rio Olympics: US swimmers admit to inventing mugging US Olympic authorities apologize to Brazil on Thursday as two US swimmers are allowed to go home having retracted a fabricated story about being mugged in Rio.

Rio Olympics: IOC official, swimmers arrested Brazilian police arrest two US swimmers and a top International Olympic Committee official as scandal overshadows the Rio Games.

Jeers for Brazil president dampen Olympic joy The Maracana stadium erupts in jeers as Brazil's unpopular interim president Michel Temer opens the Rio Olympics and the hostility spreads far beyond the sports venue.

9 held with fake HSC question papers in Dhaka Nine persons have been detained for their alleged link with question paper leak from Dhaka’s Tejgaon area and several fake HSC question papers seized from them, police said.

Mexican player's relative ordered kidnapping Mexican authorities arrest a man married to a cousin of football star Alan Pulido, accusing the suspect of ordering the player's high-profile kidnapping over the weekend.

Kalabagan killings: Nothing to panic, says DMP chief Terming the twin murder of LGBT magazine editor Xulhaz Mannan and his friend Mahbub Tonoy as “isolated incident”, DMP commissioner advises people not to panic.

Enemy of none, lover of sitar He was a sitar player. All his life, he was devoted to music, culture and peace. His family members and colleagues don't believe he had enmity with anyone. He never said or wrote anything against any religion or hurt anybody's religious sentiment.

Double murder in Rajshahi hotel room Police yesterday recovered the bodies of a male and a female university student from a hotel room in the city's Shaheb Bazar area.

18 ‘robbers’ held in Jatrabari A total of 18 people have been detained with arms from Dhaka’s Jatrabari. Police said they were preparing for a robbery in the area.

5 ‘kidnappers’ held from Mohakhali, 1 rescued Law enforcers claim to have detained five kidnappers from Dhaka’s Mohakhali area. One victim is said to have been rescued from their grasp.

Missing friend of Tonu's brother returns Mizanur Rahman, a friend of the younger brother of slain college student Sohagi Jahan Tonu, returns home safely 16 days after he went missing from Comilla.

Man shot at Mohakhali Unknown miscreants have shot a man in Mohakhali Wireless Gate area of Dhaka.

4 suspected militants held in city Detectives have arrested four suspected militants from Kalyanpur bus stand area in Dhaka and sezed religious books from their possession.

Kidnappers of boy demand Tk 1 crore Criminals yesterday demanded Tk 1 crore as ransom from a man after stealing his two-year-old son from their home in Galachipa upazila, said police.

Magura ‘robber’ killed in ‘gunfight’ A suspected robber has been killed in what police described as gunfight on Dhaka-Magura road in the Magura Sadar upazila.

Banasree 2-kid murder probe handed to DB Detectives have been tasked with the probe into the death of two children - 14-year-old Nusrat Aman Aroni and her six-year-old brother Alvi Aman - in Dhaka’s Banasree area. According to law enforcers, they were killed by their mother Mahfuza Malek Jasmine.

Siblings’ death: Court allows cops to carry out DNA, chemical tests Rab is bringing the parents and an aunt of two minor siblings -- who, autopsy suggests, might have been murdered -- to Dhaka from Jamalpur. Meanwhile, no case has been filed yet over the incident. Police say they will lodge a case if the family doesn’t do so.

Dhaka dwellers must give personal, tenant info by Mar 15 Dhaka Metropolitan Police asks landlords and tenants in Dhaka to submit their identity information to respective police stations by March 15 to help create a citizen database.

‘Bangladeshi’ college shooter held in India A man of alleged Bangladeshi origin has been held from Uttar Pradesh over the shooting outside Kolkata's Loreto College.

3 JMB, Jamaat men held over Debiganj priest killing Police have claimed detention of three people in connection with the Debiganj temple attack in Panchagarh where a Hindu priest was killed and a devotee shot yesterday. Two among them are said to be members of banned militant outfit JMB and the other a Jamaat-e-Islami activist.

Foreigners in ATM fraud ring Foreigners are believed to be involved in the skimming racket that stole money from ATMs in signs of new financial crimes that rattled both banks and customers.

Biometric registration to stop crimes: Speaker Speaker of the Parliament Shirin Sharmin Chaudhury says biometric registration of mobile subscriber identity modules (SIMs) will stop criminal activities using cell phones.

Ctg man shoots brother, nephew dead Two people are shot dead during a clash over fishing in Satkania upazila of Chittagong.

Return extra fees taken from SSC examinees: Minister Education Minister Nahid orders schools to refund in 7 days extra money taken from SSC candidates. Stern action awaits defaulters, he warns.

‘Sexual abuse by cop’: Court orders judicial inquiry Dhaka court orders judicial inquiry into allegation of sexual abuse of a female university student by a sub-inspector of Adabor Police Station. Police authorities suspend him this morning and form a probe committee.

Verdict on 2 Netrokona ‘Razakars’ tomorrow A special tribunal will deliver its verdict on two alleged Razakars of Netrokona tomorrow over crimes committed against humanity during 1971. The two 'Razakars' are Obaidul Haque alias Taher and Ataur Rahman Noni.