2014-04-16 15:43:49+06:00
Husband of Bela's Rizwana abducted
Abu Bakar Siddique (far Right) sits with his spouse Syeda Rizwana Hasan (centre-right) and 2012 Magsaysay Awardees recount the day. Photo: Magsaysay

Unknown miscreants abducted the husband of Bangladesh Environmental Lawyers Association (Bela) chief executive Syeda Rizwana Hasan in Fatulla area of Narayanganj while he was travelling to Dhaka from Narayanganj by his car.

The abductors used a car to take away Abu Bakar Siddique, a lawyer-entrepreneur, Rizwana told The Daily Star.

Later in the day, Rizwana filed a case with Fatulla Police Station against seven to eight unidentified people in connection with the abduction.

Siddique, who is currently working for Hamid Fashion in Narayanganj, was travelling alone in his Sedan when the miscreants intercepted their car.

The abductors hit his car near Bhuiyan Filling Station at Delpara around 2:45pm.

"As he (Siddique) and the driver, Ripon, got down to assess the damage, the abductors sprayed chilli powder in Ripon's eyes and took away my husband," said Rizwana.

Rizwana, who was very upset and sobbing over phone when this correspondent called her, could not immediately ascertain any reason for the abduction.

She said she was starting for Fatulla from Dhaka to gather more information about the incident.

Akhter Hossian, officer-in-charge of Fatulla Police Station, confirmed the incident but could not say who might be involved in the incident.

In the case, Rizwana stated that her husband might be victim of her uncompromising judicial activism, said Syed Nurul Islam, superintendent of police in Narayanganj.

Meanwhile, police formed a 10-member probe committee headed by Sazzadur Rahman, additional superintendent of police in Narayanganj, to investigate the incident, the police official further said.

Rizwana, a lawyer in profession, won Ramon Magsaysay Award in 2012 for her "uncompromising courage and impassioned leadership in a campaign of judicial activism in Bangladesh that affirms the people’s right to a good environment as nothing less than their right to dignity and life".