None
abduction
Remains of missing Kushtia BNP leader found Remains of a local BNP leader is recovered in Kumarkhali upazila of Kushtia last night, a year after he was abducted from the district.

Rab says it has four in its custody Families have all along alleged that their loved ones were picked up by law enforcers, who denied the claim. Now, weeks after nine

Where are they? Before her father disappeared, Rayta was a bright and cheerful girl. Now she is often depressed and spends most of her time at a corner of her home.

138 children raped in last 4 months: Report A total of 138 children were raped during the first four months of the current year, according to a report revealed by Bangladesh Shishu Adhikar Forum.

Mahmudur sent to jail after remand A court in Dhaka sends Amar Desh acting editor Mahmudur Rahman to jail in a case filed in connection with a plot to 'abduct and kill' Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's son Sajeeb Wazed Joy.

Culture of impunity led to more killings: Fakhrul BNP Secretary General Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir says that increased incidents of killings have arisen out of a prevailing culture of impunity in Bangladesh.

Shafik on fresh 5-day remand A Dhaka court places journalist Shafik Rehman on fresh 5-day remand in a case filed over an alleged plot to kidnap and kill prime minister’s son Sajeeb Wazed Joy.

Murder accused dies ‘jumping off’ Rab car, cops say A man accused of abduction and murder of a woman died after allegedly jumping off a vehicle of Rapid Action Battalion (Rab) after his arrest in Sreepur upazila of Gazipur, police say.

Child abducted from Ashulia rescued in Natore A child who was abducted two days ago from Ashulia, at the outskirts of Dhaka, has been rescued in Natore.

3 abducted Bandarban traders found murdered Three men were found dead in remote Thanchi upazila of Bandarban yesterday two days after they had been abducted.

3 to die for killing schoolboy in Sherpur A Sherpur court sentences three people to death and another to life term imprisonment for killing a schoolboy after abduction last year.

2 Brac officials abducted in Afghanistan Two Bangladeshi Brac officials working in Afghanistan are abducted by unidentified miscreants from Kunduz city.

‘IT expert’ Zoha goes missing An “IT expert”, who talked to different media as a cyber security specialist after the recent heist from Bangladesh Bank account, has been missing since Wednesday night, family claims.

Kidnappers of boy demand Tk 1 crore Criminals yesterday demanded Tk 1 crore as ransom from a man after stealing his two-year-old son from their home in Galachipa upazila, said police.

6 to die for killing Ctg schoolboy A Chittagong court sentences six persons to death in a case filed for killing a schoolboy after his abduction five years ago.

2015: tough year for minorities Some 24 people were killed, 25 raped and 1,562 families were affected in 262 incidents of minority persecution in the country last year, said a report of Bangladesh Hindu-Bouddha-Christian Oikya Parishad.

War crimes: Mir Quasem’s appeal verdict Mar 8 Supreme Court concludes hearing and sets March 8 for delivering verdict on appeal filed by convicted war criminal and Jamaat-e-Islami leader Mir Quasem challenging his death penalty. Prosecution prays court to uphold death for Quasem, while defense seeks acquittal in conclusion hearing.

Boy rescued from Gazipur Detectives arrested two alleged kidnappers and rescued a five-year-old boy in Gazipur on Sunday, around one and a half months after his abduction from the capital's Uttara area.

Keraniganj boy murder: 4 suspects remanded A Dhaka court remands four suspects on different terms in connection with the recovery of the body of an 11-year-old boy at Keraniganj in Dhaka.

Int’l trafficking gang member held in Dhaka Criminal Investigation Department (CID) arrests a member of an international human trafficking and abduction gang and recovered Tk 3 lakh from him at Dhaka’s Jatrabari area.

Abducted Ruet BCL leader found in Ctg The BCL leader of Rajshahi University of Engineering and Technology (Ruet) who was abducted 14 days ago has been rescued from Chittagong.

4 to die for killing Ctg schoolboy A Chittagong court today handed down death penalty to four persons for abducting and killing a primary school boy in 2012.

Kidnapping in the hills THE safety situation in the Chittagong Hill Tracts has deteriorated sharply, a manifestation of which we see in a rise in the incidents of abduction in the region.

Myanmar militants refuse ransom, deny abduction link Myanmar's militant group Arakan Liberation Party that had claimed responsibility for the abduction of three Bangladeshis earlier, refuses the ransom and denies their involvement in the incident.

Indefinite transport strike in greater Ctg Transport workers enforce an indefinite strike in greater Chittagong from today protesting the abduction of one of its leader Nurul Islam.

8-yr-old kidnapped by uncle found dead The body of an 8-year old schoolboy who was kidnapped six days ago was recovered from a hillock near Madhutila Eco Park in Nalitabari upazila of Sherpur.

4 held for school girl abduction attempt Police detain four kidnappers while they were attempting to abduct a school girl in Sujanagar upazila of Pabna.

DB Police impersonators on the rise The number of incidents of abduction carried out by criminals posing as DB Police, have apparently gone up in the capital prompting the Dhaka Metropolitan Police (DMP) to ask the public to help catch the imposters.