2013-09-07 12:34:24+06:00
'Obama's daughter to be kidnapped, raped'
An Iranian strategic expert has warned that one of President Obama's daughters will be kidnapped and raped if America attacks Syria.

Alireza Forghani, also the former governor of southern Iran’s Kish Province, warned of mass abductions and killings of American citizens worldwide in the event the Obama administration launches a military strike in Syria.

'Hopefully Obama will be pigheaded enough to attack Syria, and then we will see the … loss of US interests [through terrorist attacks],' he threatened.

'In just 21 hours [after the attack on Syria], a family member of every US minister [department secretary], US ambassadors, US military commanders around the world will be abducted. And then 18 hours later, videos of their amputation will be spread [around the world]' he said reported The Daily Caller.

The threat comes amid reports today that the U.S has intercepted an order from an Iranian official instructing militants in Iraq to attack US interests in Baghdad if the attack goes ahead.

The American embassy in Baghdad was a likely target, according to unnamed US officials quoted by the Wall Street Journal.

The Journal said the officials did not describe the range of potential targets indicated by the intelligence.

In addition, the State Department issued a warning on Thursday telling US citizens to avoid all but 'essential' travel to Iraq.

President Barack Obama has asked the US Congress to back his plan for limited strikes in response to a chemical weapons attack on civilians that the United States blames on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's forces.

The Journal reported that the Iranian message was intercepted in recent days and came from the head of the Revolutionary Guards' Qods Force.

The newspaper said the message went to Iranian-supported Shi'ite militia groups in Iraq.

The Journal reported that the message informed Shi'ite groups to be prepared to respond with force after any US military strike on Syria.

'Travel within Iraq remains dangerous given the security situation,' according to the State Department's warning, which replaced an earlier one 'to update information on security incidents and to remind US citizens of ongoing security concerns in Iraq, including kidnapping and terrorist violence.'

The department said that numerous insurgent groups, including al Qaeda's Iraq affiliate, remain active and 'terrorist activity and sectarian violence persist in many areas of the country at levels unseen since 2008.'

It added: 'The ability of the embassy to respond to situations in which U.S. citizens face difficulty, including arrests, is extremely limited.'

The State Department declined immediate comment. The CIA declined comment.

The US and France are so far the only nations attending the G20 to have backed the use of military force against the Assad regime, with Russia and China insisting that any action in the absence of UN Security Council approval would be illegal.