2012-10-08 00:00:00+06:00
UAE expatriates urge Bangladesh to combat passport, visa forgeries
The UAE-based Bangladesh Business Council (BBC) yesterday urged the government to fast resolve the issue of

fake identification documents, so that UAE could resume issuing visas for Bangladeshi nationals.

Earlier in August, UAE imposed stringent measures because of the increasing number of Bangladeshis migrants.

Many had fake documents, expired passports and visas, which are considered by UAE as a security threat.

On Thursday, the Gulf nation temporarily suspended issuing entry permits to Bangladeshi nationals over the matter.

In each of the last eight months, some 25,000-30,000 Bangladeshi workers left for the UAE, according to data from the labour and employment ministry.

“The government should take special initiative regarding UAE's security concern, as it is the second largest market for Bangladeshi workers,” said Mohammad Mahtabur Rahman, president of BBC, while adding that workers could check online whether their visas are legitimate or not.

Jasim Uddin, first vice-president of the Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FBCCI), urged the UAE government to withdraw its sanction.

They spoke at an agree-ment signing ceremony between the FBCCI and the BBC, at the apex trade body's office in the capital.

The agreement is expected to encourage and facilitate co-operation in trade and investment between the two organisations, said Uddin.

Rahman said UAE can become a route for the re-export of Bangladeshi goods to Arab and African regions, citing the country's jute exports to Iran.

Iran was one of the major buyers of Bangladeshi jute products before international sanctions on the country.

“There is scope to use the regular shipments made from Dubai to Iran for the re-export of jute products.”

He suggested the Bangladeshi readymade garment exporters explore the markets in the African and the MENA regions using Dubai, to diversify their markets from Europe and USA.

The MENA region refers to the Asian countries of Bahrain, Cyprus, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Palestine, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Turkey, the UAE and Yemen, and the North African countries of Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Morocco and Tunisia.

Rahman also pointed out that Bangladeshi businessmen in Dubai are eager to invest in the country, but the government has to entice them with incentives such as five-year tax exemption for new investments.

The UAE became the second largest importer of Bangladeshi goods last fiscal year.