2011-10-21 00:00:00+06:00
Pakistani caught with forged Indian rupees




Detectives early yesterday arrested a Pakistani woman from Shahjalal International Airport and seized fake Indian currency amounting to Rs48,00,000 from her possession.

The arrestee is Shameem Naz, 47, of Tendu Mohammad in Karachi. Police claimed she is a member of an international counterfeit currency ring, which uses Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan as smuggling routes.

She arrived at SIA from Abu Dhabi on an Etihad Airways flight and was detained around 4:00am from the parking area of the airport, said officials of Detective Branch of police.

Naz dodged the luggage scanner at the airport as the fake notes were hidden under a hard rubber layer in her suitcase.

A Dhaka court placed the forgery suspect on a three-day remand for grilling after police produced her before the court.

Law enforcers also produced her before the media in the afternoon at the media centre of Dhaka Metropolitan Police.

Talking to newsmen, she denied her involvement in the crime claiming an unknown person had requested her to carry the luggage and hand it over to a man in Dhaka.

She also insisted she had no idea about anything hidden in the suitcase.

Naz has come to Dhaka from Pakistan via Abu Dhabi to elude the police intelligence unit, said Mohammad Shahidulla, senior assistant commissioner of DB.

She came to Bangladesh three times since 2008, went to Nepal twice and Bhutan once. She made all the trips from Abu Dhabi, added the DB official.

According to detectives, fake Indian currency is produced in Pakistan and smuggled into India through Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan.

The quality of the counterfeit notes produced in Pakistan is far better than those produced in Bangladesh, maintained Shahidulla. “The circulation of fake Indian notes is widening recently as the monitory transaction soars for purchase of sacrificial animals on the eve of Eid-ul-Azha.”

Naz's husband Karim Mohammad Nur Ali, also a key member of the gang, is now in Bangladesh and was supposed to receive her at the airport.

Karim is an accused in two cases filed in connection with recovery of forged currency in Dhaka.

Detectives have so far arrested some 30 forgers of five such rings involved in currency forgery from the capital and adjacent areas. They suspect there might be at least three other gangs yet to be busted.