2016-08-08 00:00:00+06:00
ACC arrests 7 in graft cases
The Anti-Corruption Commission yesterday arrested seven people, including two former officials of a private bank, from different parts of the country in separate graft cases.

ACC's Assistant Director Moazzem Hossain held Inamul Haque, former assistant vice-president of Islami Bank Bangladesh Ltd, and its former investment in-charge Shamsuddin, and proprietor of Three Star and Co MA Mannan for taking Tk 12.13 crore in loan against fake documents.

According to the case statement, one Ali Hossain is the owner of 1.5 katha plot at Mirpur Section-11.

The accused, Mannan, in collaboration with Al-Fattah Habibullah, managing director of development company Urban Skyline Ltd, forged the signature of the land owner and mortgaged the land to the Islami Bank's Bangshal branch with the help of Inamul and Shamsuddin, the statement said.

“They withdrew Tk 12,13,37,591 from the bank and didn't repay the loan,” the statement added.

Tahsinul Haque, deputy director of the anti-graft body, filed a case against five people in this connection with Bangshal Police Station on June 6 this year.

Moazzem, who is investigating the case, arrested them from the capital's Segunbagicha area.

In another incident, the anti-corruption watchdog nabbed Abdul Kaium, centre in-charge of Grameen Bank's Chukitti branch in Chapainawabganj, for gobbling up Tk 6.92 lakh.

ACC's Assistant Director Rizia Khatun arrested him from Police Line Gate in Rajshahi. A case was filed against him on July 15, 2014.

ACC's Assistant Director Hafizul Islam held Shampa Rani Shaha, secretary of New Prime Multipurpose Cooperative Society Ltd, from Faridpur in a graft case filed against her on January 7, 2015, for misappropriating Tk 1.14 crore.

In another development, the ACC caught two former union parishad members Azizur Rahman and Abul Kalam Azad of Shyamnagar in Satkhira for embezzling Tk 85,500 from a rural infrastructure development project of 2002-03 fiscal without doing any work.

Assistant Director of ACC Shamim Iqbal arrested them from Shyamnagar. A case was filed against them on April 28 this year.