2009-12-30 23:00:00+07:00
Fake currency factory busted in city, 2 held




A Rab team yesterday busted a forged money factory in the city's Dakshinkhan area and seized fake notes worth Tk 2.3 lakh.

During an hour-long raid at Faidabad Madhyapara from midnight on the third floor of a four-storied building, Rab members also recovered some equipment and chemicals used in printing fake notes and arrested two people in this connection.

Detained Jahirul Islam, 27, and his wife Ayesha Akter, 25, had been involved in the fake note scam for the last one and half a year, Rab sources said.

Maj Mohammad Mahbubul Haque of Rab-3, who led the drive, told The Daily Star that the forgers had spread their network in the capital.

Fake notes worth around Tk 1.5 crore put by them in circulation are still in the market.

Maj Haque suspects that international gangs might have connection with the local syndicate. Replying to a query he however said the equipment and raw materials used in forging notes are available in local market.

Rab sources said the gang was capable of printing Tk 50, Tk 100, Tk 500 and Tk 1000 notes worth Tk 10 lakh a day. They recently have developed the technology to make the fake notes as strong as the real ones.

Rab members also found huge amount of papers to print notes, half-printed forged notes, one computer monitor and two CPUs, three colour printers and several scanning machines.

"We have also seized some embossers and computer software needed for making Indian notes," Maj Haque said.

Rab said the busting of the forgery factory is an outcome of three months of investigation by the Rapid Action Battalion members who contacted with the syndicate to purchase Tk 10 lakh counterfeit notes in exchange of Tk 2 lakh.

Rab said apprehending the arrest, the gang used to shift residences every three months and use pseudonyms.

Maj Haque said, "The amount of fake currency notes seized from the market in different times suggests that a number of gangs are active in this illegal business."

THE FORGERY GANG

The two arrestees, now under intensive interrogation, disclosed to the elite force members that they had also a plan to forge Indian notes.

Zahurul hailing from Charghat in Rajshahi passed diploma from Government Commercial Institute in Rangpur in 2003 and then worked at the Proshika, an NGO, for four years.

He admitted to Rab that he got involved in the illegal business through their ringleader Rana in 2008.

The syndicate led by Rana has around 50 members in three groups -- general workers, team leaders and suppliers, Rab sources said.

They added the gang worked so secretly that even their neighbours did not know anything about their clandestine activities.