2013-10-08 00:20:07+06:00
MLM bill passed to check fraud
The Jatiya Sangsad yesterday passed a bill to bring MLM companies under a legal framework and impose a ban on pyramid selling.

Commerce Minister GM Quader proposed the passage of the Multilevel Marketing Activities (Control) Bill 2013.

According to the law, passed by a voice vote, no one can do MLM business without obtaining a licence. To get a licence, an applicant must form a company under the Company Act, 1994.

The law bans the pyramid selling, an investment scam based on a hierarchical setup, in MLM business.

The pyramid scheme is a business model that involves promising participants payment or services, primarily for enrolling others into the scheme, rather than giving any real investment or sale of products or services to the public.

The law has provision for upto 10 years' imprisonment and Tk 50 lakh fine for running MLM businesses without licences.

If an existing MLM company fails to apply to the government for a licence within 90 days of effective of the law, its operators will also be penalised, it said.

The law allowed the MLM companies to trade eight types of products -- household, electric and electronics, home appliances, cosmetics and toiletries, herbal, telecom services, training-related products and services, and agricultural products.

Yesterday, the House also passed the Safe Food Bill, 2013 that has a provision for setting up a unified authority to fight food adulteration and attend to other food-related concerns of consumers.

The law also allows forming as many food courts as necessary to prosecute adulterators.

According to the law, which replaced Pure Food Ordinance, 1959, said twenty-five percent of the money realised through penalties against food adulterators will go to the plaintiffs.

The law, passed by a voice vote, also has a provision of a maximum of five years' imprisonment or a fine of Tk 10 lakh or both for persons guilty of food adulteration.

It said the National Pure Food Management Advisory Council, headed by the food minister and comprised of members from different ministries and government, private and academic bodies, has to be formed.

Both the bills were placed in parliament on September 30.