2015-08-30 00:00:00+06:00
Combined effort must to beat cyber crime
Coordinated effort of state bodies, service providers and internet users are crucial in preventing cyber crimes in the country, said discussants yesterday.

Besides, social awareness and monitoring by guardians can prevent the young generation from misusing the internet, they viewed.

Policymakers, law enforcers, experts and internet users were addressing a discussion titled "Safe Internet" organised by bdnews24.com at a hotel in the capital.

State Minister for Information and Communication Technology Zunaid Ahmed Palak said the government will set up a digital forensic lab to identify perpetrators who post abusive contents on the internet.

His division has already set up a call centre to provide assistance to victims of cyber crime. Any victim can contact the centre by dialling 01766678888 any time, Palak added.

The government is thinking about setting up a special body or institute for conducting extensive research on internet and its safe use, he added.

State Minister for Post and Telecommunications Tarana Halim said the government plans to introduce Internet Safety Solution (ISS) soon to prevent cyber crimes.

She emphasised more efficient and effective role of Bangladesh Telecommunication Regulatory Commission (BTRC) to prevent misuse of internet.

Brig Gen Emdad ul Bari, director general of BTRC's systems and services department, said a large chunk of internet users in Bangladesh do not use real IP (internet protocol). As a result, perpetrators in many cases cannot be identified.

Rab Director General Benazir Ahmed suggested contacting law enforcers if somebody faces trouble due to abusive content in the internet.

He also criticised those who spreads abusive content or tarnishes somebody's image on the internet in the name of free thinking.

Toufique Imrose Khalidi, bdnews24.com editor-in-chief, moderated the function, while Unicef Bangladesh's Communication, Advocacy and Partnership Section Chief Shima Islam, among others, spoke.