2007-11-05 00:00:00+06:00
Cyber-crime on the rise
Bangladesh police is organising a three-day regional 'cyber-crime seminar' beginning from today in the city aiming at fostering future cooperation among the participating countries and improving capacities to combat such crimes.

“Cyber-crime and technology related crimes are on the rise and current trends indicate that it will be a significant issue in South and South-East Asia,” Additional Inspector General NBK Tripura told a press conference at the police headquarters yesterday.

He said they are now improving their capacities to combat Cyber-crime, which he expects would expand with the increase in online connectivity and e-commerce in near future.

He also said the regional seminar will help foster future cooperation among the participating countries.

Apart from Bangladesh, experts dealing with cyber-crime issues in Australia, Hong Kong, Sri Lanka and Nepal will take part in the seminar to be held at Dhaka Sheraton Hotel. LGRD, Labour and Employment Adviser Anwarul Iqbal will inaugurate the seminar as the chief guest.

The Police Reform Programme (PRP) in cooperation with the Australian Federal Police is supporting the seminar, NBK Tripura, also the national project director of PRP, told the press conference.

He said regional participation would foster regional cooperation and networking in combating cyber-crime and would allow national agencies operating within the region to exchange ideas and lessons learnt so far.

“We are aware that, in this modern day and age, crime is not bound by borders and takes advantage of the technology available on the market. We are preparing ourselves to fight hi-tech crime,” Tripura said.

Responding to a question, he said as there is no law in the country regarding cyber-crime, the government is mauling to enact a law and the law has already been included in the proposed reforms drafted under the PRP.

The participants will discuss and present papers on practical issues in dealing with different types of cyber-crime, resourcing cyber-crime response, organisational set-up, staffing, skill set and training, infrastructure, operational procedures and future trends and considerations during the seminar.

PRP ICT Systems and Strategy Specialist Wojciech Koprowicz discussed about the types of cyber-crime.