2008-02-11 00:00:00+06:00
One held in Ctg for submitting forged documents to draw Tk 1 cr
A man was held in the port city yesterday while trying to draw acquisition money of over Tk 1 crore by submitting forged documents.

The arrestee was identified as Nazimuddin, son of late Taffazal Ahmed of Panchlaish area.

Sources said Nazim submitted a fake 'Power of Attorney' at the District Land Acquisition (LA) Office at Sholoshahar in a bid to draw over Tk 1 crore against 35 Gandas of acquired land.

The land belonging to the successors of late Bazal Ahmad Sawdagar was acquired for developing a housing project Ananya, by Chittagong Development Authority.

Nazim submitted the 'Power of Attorney' carrying the forged signatures of Mohin Uddin and Sarwar Uddin, two of the successors of the acquired land, some seven days back.

Hearing the news of attempted forgery, Mohin Uddin, who has been an expatriate in Saudi Arabia for the last nine years, made a prayer to the District L/A office for holding up the payments of the acquisition money.

In the meantime Sarwar Uddin also in a letter disowned the 'Power of Attorney' Nazim claimed.

The officials of District LA Office held Nazimuddin and handed him over to Panchlaish Police Station after Mohin Uddin flew in to Chittagong and confirmed that the signature Nazim submitted was fake.

In this regard District LAO Md Motaher Hossain said Mohin Uddin and Sarwar Uddin alleged that their signatures had been forged.

The Power of Attorney made in the name of an expatriate requires to be verified by the concerned embassy. But, the 'Power of Attorney' submitted by Nazim did not bear such verifications (seals and signatures from Bangladesh embassy in Saudi Arabia).

Meanwhile, Mohin Uddin further alleged that Nazim also made an agreement to sell off around 92 Gandas of their land last year using fake 'Power of Attorney', which they revealed recently.

While talking to this correspondent at the district L/A office yesterday, Nazim said that he got the 'Power of Attorney' from six out of the seventeen successors to the huge property of late Bazal Sawdagar.

He claimed that he got the 'Power of Attorney' as the six successors took money from him on different occasions. But, he failed to show any such documents or papers in this connection.