2010-05-27 00:00:00+06:00
SC lawyer faces music for forgery
The High Court for the first time has directed the Bangladesh Bar Council to cancel enrolment of Supreme Court lawyer MA Hamid for committing forgery in filing a writ petition with the court.

The court asked the Bar Council and the Supreme Court Bar Association to prevent Hamid from doing legal practice in any court.

The HC bench of justices AHM Shamsuddin Chowdhury Manik and Md Delwar Hossain gave the orders after reviewing previous records of MA Hamid, who allegedly submitted forged documents to another HC bench.

The court said MA Hamid submitted a fake certificate to another HC bench of Justice AFM Abdur Rahman for having a court order in his favour. But the bench then did not take any action against him considering his old age.

Hamid filed a writ petition with this HC bench on May 12 on behalf of two persons challenging the formation of a school's governing body in Chapainawabganj despite the fact that the same writ petition had been rejected earlier by another HC bench.

He filed the petition on behalf of Sarwar Jahan, former principal of Sahapara Girls' High School and College at Shibganj in Chapainawabganj and Akhter Hossain, former headmaster of the school.

On May 13, the petition was moved before the HC bench that issued a suo moto contempt of court ruling against four lawyers including MA Hamid for suppressing facts on filing of the writ petition and its rejection order.

Mahmud Hossain, a counsel for the school's governing body, said the HC ordered cancellation of Hamid's enrolment for suppressing facts and committing forgery in different ways.

He said in the 90s Rajshahi Bar Association barred Hamid from legal practice in the Rajshahi court for committing forgery in moving cases.

Hamid, however, refuted all allegations against him. The lawyer said he filed the writ petition on behalf of his clients with the HC bench headed by Justice AHM Shamsuddin Chowdhury Manik as another HC bench of justices Nazmun Ara Sultana and Md Rais Uddin in April dropped the petition.

He would lodge an appeal with the Supreme Court against the HC order, said Hamid.

Advocate Abdul Baset Majumder, vice chairman of Bangladesh Bar Council, said this is the first time the HC ordered the Bar to cancel enrolment of a lawyer.

The Bar Council has the authority to cancel any lawyer's enrolment for professional misconduct.

The HC bench also asked ZA Bakul, founder chairman of the school; Sarwar Jahan and Akhter Hossain to appear before the court on June 2 to give explanation.

The bench also warned lawyer Abdur Rouf and exempted petitioners' counsels Abdul Khalek and Jamilur Akhter from contempt charge after they offered unconditional apology to the court for their involvement in suppressing information about the writ petition.

Mahmud Hossain told the court that the Rajshahi Bar Association earlier cancelled Hamid's enrolment certificate for committing forgery.

He alleged that Bakul committed forgery with the HC by submitting fake documents to move the case.

Despite repeated attempts, Bakul could not be reached for comment.