2010-09-23 00:00:00+06:00
Currency forgery gang leader held in city
Detective Branch (DB) of police arrested the leader of a transnational gang involved in producing fake foreign currencies and recovered 53,500 fake Indian rupees from his possession at Banasree in city's Rampura on Tuesday night.

The detectives also traced the gang's involvement in financing a militant organisation in Bangladesh.

Monirul Islam, deputy commissioner (DC) of DB told reporters they acted on a tip off and recovered 37 fake notes of Rs1000 and 33 notes of Rs500 denomination from his residence.

During preliminary interrogation arrestee Solaiman Majumder, 33, told the detectives the forged notes were produced in Pakistan and were brought into the country with the help a foreign detective organisation.

A foreign airline was used to bring the fake currencies to Bangladesh from Pakistan where they were circulated in the local market as well as in Nepal.

He said they also produced fake US dollars as well as Indian currencies.

Detained chief of Jam'atul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) Maulana Saidur Rahman (JMB) confessed during recent interrogation that they used to receive monetary support regularly from Solaiman.

However, Solaiman denied his involvement in counterfeiting money before the reporters at the DB office yesterday. He said he had bought the currencies from one Aman as he was preparing to go to India.

Solaiman's name surfaced while some Pakistani nationals including Danish and Sabbir Ali were arrested a few months ago.

Solaiman was detained in February but was set free on bail five weeks into his arrest when he went to Pakistan, DB sources said.

Of Solaiman's eight accomplices Faisal, Aman and Rafiq acted as wholesalers of the forged notes, said DC Monir, adding, Rafiq who was arrested on September 16 is currently in prison, while Faisal and Aman were arrested but later set free on bail.

The DB is preparing to produce him before the court with a prayer for a ten-day remand and also for filing a case on charge of helping militants.