2010-09-06 00:00:00+06:00
Brazen forgery at Biman
Employees of Biman Bangladesh Airlines Ltd misappropriate about Tk 3.24 crore through forged signatures of over 300 officials and 1,013 fake vouchers in five years.

No officials, not even the managing director and general manager of Biman, were spared who travelled abroad during the time. The fake vouchers bearing their forged signatures were submitted to draw their "official" expenditures abroad beyond their knowledge.

"Even the trips made by the managing director and general manager were not spared. The officials drew money showing bills containing their fake signatures," said an Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC) official indicating the level of corruption at Biman.

The ACC yesterday filed five separate cases against ten former and incumbent Biman officials on charges of misappropriating Tk 3.24 crore through mutual collaboration.

ACC Deputy Director Benjir Ahmed filed the cases with Airport police against officials of accounts, cash and banking, and payroll sections in the airlines.

According to the first information reports, the accused prepared 1,013 fake vouchers of overseas transport allowances and dearness allowances.

The FIRs add the accused used photocopy and carbon copies of the submitted bills, overwriting the actual demand with a higher amount.

Sometimes the officials forged a bill several times against the same overseas trip. The forgery occurred in between December 2000 and October 2005.

The accused are former accounts executive (payroll) Harun-Ar-Rashid, former accounts executive (cash and banking) MAST Chowdhury, former manager (payroll) Mohammad Zinnah, former accounts officer Meer Azizzur Rahman, former assistant manager (accounts, cash and banking) MA Rob, former manager (accounts) MA Awal, former assistant manager (accounts, cash and banking) Nur Mohammad, former accounts executive (cash and banking) Golam Mustafa, former manager (cash and banking) Abdul Malek, and Manager (cash and banking) Fariduddin Ahmed.

Of the cases, the first was filed for misappropriating Tk 12.69 lakh by forging 92 vouchers in between December 2000 and June 2001.

The second was filed for misappropriating Tk 34.06 lakh through 199 fake vouchers and the third for misappropriating Tk 77.82 lakh through 298 vouchers in next two years.

The fourth and fifth were filed for misappropriating Tk 1.15 crore through 310 vouchers in between July 2003 and June 2004 and misappropriating Tk 84.56 lakh in between July 2005 and October 2005 through 114 fake vouchers.

Investigation reveals Harun used to forge signatures and prepare fake bills before sending it to Mohammad Zinnah for approval by other officials concerned.

All the ten officials are already accused in the charge sheet submitted in connection with another graft case filed for misappropriating Tk 2.75 crore in the same manner in between July 2004 and June 2005.

CDA OFFICIALS SUED

Anti-Corruption Commission here yesterday sued 12 officials of Chittagong Development Authority (CDA), including its chief engineer, and 13 contractors for embezzling Tk 1,21,58,322 of a project, reports our staff correspondent from Chittagong.

The CDA officials and contractors were accused in 13 cases filed with Chandgaon Police Station. They were sued for misappropriating the project fund for renovating a 3-km road stretching from FIDC (Bahir Signal) point of Shah Amanat Bridge Link Road to Kalurghat bridge under a Tk 9.85 crore project.

The accused CDA officials are Chief Engineer Iqbal Hossain Majumder, ex-Superintendent Engineer Nur Hossain, Executive Engineers Manjur Hassan and AAM Habibur Rahman, Assistant Engineers Nurul Amin Bhuiyan, Mohammad Ilias and Ilias Akter, Sub Assistant Engineers Hamidul Haque and Osman Sikder, Estimators Rupam Kumar Chowdhury and Syed Golam Sarwar and Finance and Accounts Officer Mohammad Nazer.

Deputy Director of ACC (Chittagong) Sayed Iqbal Hossain said its probe found the accused did not work properly while implementing the project. They also withdrew the bills without completing the renovation work of the road as per the tender.

ACC is also processing steps to file nine more cases against the same batch of CDA officials and contractors for embezzling Tk 53.70 lakh of the project, he added.