None
Bangladesh Bank
Fire safety at BB HQ 'inadequate' Fire safety measures were not adequate at the Bangladesh Bank headquarters in the capital's Motijheel, according to a top fire service official.

Bangladesh Bank building fire under control The fire at the headquarters of Bangladesh Bank in Motijheel area of Dhaka has been brought under control after around an hour. Twelve units of firefighters douse the fire that originated on the 13th floor of the 32-storey building.

Return the cyber heist money The much-talked about Bangladesh Bank (BB) cyber heist of USD 81 million entered a new twist as Rizal Commercial Banking Corp (RCBC) of the Philippines has stated that there is no need for it to return USD 2.7 million as it was “negligence” on the part of BB that led to the heist in the first place.

SC directs to ease convicts’ fine payment process The Supreme Court issues directives for easing the process of paying fines of the convicts to be released from jail.

No plan to sue Fed, SWIFT: BB Bangladesh's central bank says it has reversed its plans to sue the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the SWIFT money transfer network, and instead intends to seek their help recovering $81 million stolen by cyber thieves in February.

Bangladesh nears recovery of US$81m stolen funds Bangladesh Bank is a step closer to recovering a portion of the US$81 million fund stolen by hackers from its account with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, reports The Philippine Star.

Bank branches at markets to stay open until July 4 To facilitate the shopping spree ahead of Eid-ul-Fitr, branches of banks around marketplaces all over the country will remain open until July 4.

Banks too get 9-day holiday Bangladesh Bank and all other banks will remain closed for 9 straight days starting Friday, July 1.

Banks to remain open on July 2, 3 All bank branches to remain open on July 2 and 3 in industrial areas of Dhaka, Chittagong, Narayanganj, Gazipur and Savar, to facilitate disbursement of salaries to garment workers.

Dridex malware linked to BB heist Investigators links malware used by Russian and eastern European cybergangs to a string of bank heists that culminated in the record-breaking theft of US$81 million from Bangladesh's central bank, people familiar with the probe said.

US attorney in Manhattan probes BB cyber heist US attorney's office opens probe of cyber heist of $81 million from Bangladesh Bank's account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, a law enforcement source says.

Farashuddin wants further probe The government should carry out further investigation to find out whether the suspected Bangladesh Bank officials were really involved in the $101 million cyber heist, says Mohammed Farashuddin, head of the three-member body that probed the theft.

2 Bangladesh Bank brasses under graft radar An inquiry has been launched against two executive directors of Bangladesh Bank for their alleged involvement in corruption and misappropriating money.

NY Fed first rejected cyber-heist transfers, then moved $81m Hours before the Federal Reserve Bank of New York approved four fraudulent requests to send $81 million from a Bangladesh Bank account to cyber thieves, the Fed branch blocked those same requests because they lacked information required to transfer money, according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.

SWIFT fights to restore faith after BB heist The chief executive of secure messaging system SWIFT says the theft of $81 million from Bangladesh's central bank, by criminals sending fraudulent payment instructions via SWIFT, would force the organisation to shrink and review its strategy.

US Congress launches probe into BB heist A US congressional committee launches a probe into the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's handling of the cyber theft of $81 million from one of its accounts held by the central bank of Bangladesh, according to a letter seen by Reuters.

SWIFT, others blamed in full probe of BB heist A government-formed committee which investigated the US$101 million heist from Bangladesh central bank’s account with Federal Reserve Bank of New York submits its full report to the finance minister. It has found SWIFT and others responsible for the heist.

Probe into 2013 hack for links to central bank heist Bangladesh police are reviewing a nearly forgotten 2013 cyber heist at the nation’s largest commercial bank for connections to February's $81 million heist at the country's central bank, a senior law enforcement official says.

Bangladesh Bank heist trail goes cold in Manila as probes falter More than three months have passed since $81 million was stolen in a brazen cyber-heist from Bangladesh's central bank and sent to Manila - yet authorities in the Philippines appear no closer to nabbing those who laundered most of the money through a bank and casinos.

BB heist: Dhaka asks SWIFT to give access to technicians Bangladesh asks SWIFT to help its police question technicians sent by the global financial network to Dhaka to connect a new bank transaction system months before February's $81 million cyber heist, according to a source and an e-mail seen by Reuters today.

JS body seeks lists of firms, banks named in Panama Papers The parliamentary standing committee on finance asks the central bank to submit a list of organisations and companies, whose names have been published in the Panama Papers.

Probe body blames SWIFT for BB heist Global financial network SWIFT is primarily responsible for the hacking of Bangladesh central bank reserve, says head of the committee probing into one of the biggest cyber-heists in the world. SWIFT was responsible to ensure around 13 security measures for the safety of the system but it did not do so, he adds.

BB heist: Banks responsible for own cyber security, says SWIFT SWIFT told its bank customers that they are responsible for securing computers used to send messages over its global network, which was used to steal some $81 million from a Bangladesh central bank account at the New York Fed in February.

SWIFT rejects Bangladeshi claims over $81m cyber heist SWIFT on Monday rejected allegations by officials in Bangladesh that technicians with the global messaging system made the nation's central bank more vulnerable to hacking before an $81 million cyber heist in February.

'SWIFT technicians left BB vulnerable to hackers' Bangladesh's central bank became more vulnerable to hackers when technicians from SWIFT, the global financial network, connected a new bank transaction system to SWIFT messaging three months before a $81 million cyber heist, Bangladeshi police and a bank official allege.

NY Fed feared cyber attacks before BB heist In the years leading up to hackers stealing $81 million from a Bangladesh central bank account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, senior Fed security officials examined the risk of such an attack - but judged the prospect unlikely, bank sources said.

Interpol team in Dhaka to help CID The six visiting Interpol officials teaming up with the Criminal Investigation Department yesterday started forensic analysis of

Instant BB measures prevented larger heist: PM Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina says instant and proper measures taken by the Bangladesh Bank after the heist from its fund with Federal Reserve Bank of New York prevented hacking of a larger sum of money.

Bangladesh will get stolen funds back: Philippine justice dept The Department of Justice (DOJ) assures that the money stolen by hackers from the Bangladesh Bank will be returned to its government as soon as possible but procedures have to be followed.