2016-10-28 13:46:15+06:00
13 held for admission forgery at DU, JnU, CU
At least 13 aspirants who sat for today’s admission tests of Dhaka, Jagannath and Chittagong universities were detained for illegally using electronic devices and forgery at different exam centres.

During Dhaka University’s “Gha” unit tests, seven applicants were found using mobile phones and other electronic devices at different examination centres in the capital, DU Proctor M Amzad Ali told The Daily Star.

Some of the detainees were using their smartphones to get the answers, which were sent from outsiders through WhatsApp and other text messages, he said.

Rest of them were caught by the invigilators while they were receiving answers from the tiny plug in their ears and master card like electronic device in their pocket, Amzad said.

All the detainees primarily admitted that they made deals of Tk 2 lakh to Tk 3 lakh for getting answers during the tests, the proctor added.

The one-hour test was held between 10:00am and 11:00am in 99 centres inside and outside of the campus where a total of 1, 09,170 admission seekers vied for total 1,540 seats to get enrolled.

Meanwhile, five aspirants were arrested in connection with forgery during the “D” unit admission test of Jagannath University (JnU), Noor Mohammad, proctor of the university, told The Daily Star.

A case was filed against them with Sutrapur Police Station, he added.

"They were trying to enter the exam halls with the mobile phone around 2 to 3 minutes before the test after memorising the answers which were sent to their phones from outsiders," he added.

Besides, a mobile court sentenced an applicant to six months in jail for his involvement in fraudulent activities during “B” unit entry test of Chittagong University (CU), said CU Assistant Proctor Liton Mitra.

He was capturing pictures of the question paper by his mobile phone set to send to the outside of the exam hall to receive answers during the admission test, he told our CU correspondent.