2013-08-01 00:54:55+06:00
Bradley Manning convicted of espionage
American soldier Bradley Manning was found guilty of espionage on Tuesday for leaking US government secrets, but he was cleared of the most serious charge that he wilfully helped al-Qaeda.

Manning, in full military uniform, showed little emotion as he heard his fate in a nine-minute judgment that could still see him jailed for a total of 136 years for handing classified information to WikiLeaks, the anti-secrecy website headed by Julian Assange.

Tuesday's verdict follows an exhaustive two-month court martial at the Fort Meade military base in Maryland, near the US capital.

Manning's trial entered sentencing phase yesterday. The sentencing hearing could take as long as a month, with each side expected to present about 10 witnesses -- including, the defense has said, possibly Manning himself.

The 25-year-old US Army private was working as an intelligence analyst near Baghdad when he was arrested more than three years ago and he has been in military custody ever since.

The prosecution had argued that Manning's actions directly benefited Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda, but Colonel Denise Lind, the presiding judge, was not persuaded beyond a reasonable doubt that such damage had occurred.

Lind found him guilty of seven of eight counts he faced under the Espionage Act, including counts of stealing US government property and the committal of computer fraud relating to confidential records.

The case is considered crucial to the fate of those who disclose government information. Manning's disclosures largely comprised US diplomatic cables and classified battlefield reports from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The judgment was greeted with fury by WikiLeaks, which said on Twitter that the court's decision reflected "dangerous national security extremism" on the part of US President Barack Obama's White House.

Manning's defense team had argued throughout the trial that he was not evil but "young and naive" and that he acted out of conscience, seeking to shine a light on what he felt was government misconduct.

But the prosecution insists Manning recklessly betrayed his uniform and his country by leaking documents he knew al-Qaeda would see and use.

WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange on Tuesday called Manning a "hero," and said he expected him to appeal after a military judge convicted him of espionage.

"Bradley Manning's alleged disclosures have exposed war crimes, sparked revolutions and induced democratic reforms," he argued.

"He is the most important journalistic source the world has ever seen," Assange added.