2010-07-01 00:00:00+06:00
Arrests show US-Russia espionage still active after Cold War
The case reads like a plot from a cheap spy thriller, but analysts say the break-up of an alleged Russian undercover network in the United States shows that espionage remains serious business decades after the Cold War ended.

"Russia is continuing to spy on the US, as other countries which harbour animosity do," said Ariel Cohen, a Heritage Foundation senior research fellow specializing in security issues.

But he said the indictments of the alleged spies "indicate mostly old and sloppy tradecraft, which reads like a parody on (British author John) Le Carre books from the 1970s, agents who are not well placed or tech-savvy."

Because the spy craft appears unsophisticated, Cohen said, "some old timers from the intelligence community speculated that the network is a decoy to mask a much more sophisticated espionage operation in the US."

Fred Burton, a former State Department intelligence agent who is now vice president at the security and consulting firm Stratfor, said the arrests after years of surveillance suggest that the network was nearing some key information or knew it had been compromised.

"The FBI didn't wake up Sunday morning and decide to take these folks down," he told AFP.

"Clearly, they were probably bumping up against something that was valuable," he said, adding that the spy ring may have "stumbled" onto "someone who has access to classified information or who is a defence contractor."

Because the suspects were not charged with espionage but with acting as agents of a foreign government, Burton said the investigation is not complete but that prosecutors "may build an espionage case" later against the group.

"I view this as a very sophisticated Russian illegal operation. But having said that, I think the FBI did a wonderful job in ferreting these people out."

Burton said there was "a logical assumption" that more Russian agents and sleeper cells may be operating on US soil and that "one of the results of these takedowns is that you will rattle a few trees that will lead to other people or fill in other parts of other investigations.”

The US Justice Department said the 10 "deep-cover" suspects were held on suspicion of seeking details of US nuclear weapons and foreign policy. According to court documents, the spy ring had been under FBI surveillance for a decade.

The case nonetheless reads like a work of fiction, with a glamorous Russian female agent, "sleeper" cells and cloak-and-dagger secret drops in public places, as one might expect in the Cold War era, even though that ended with the break-up of the Soviet Union in 1991.

"It's not surprising that even when relations are good, countries will continue their intelligence programs against one another. It's what intelligence agencies do," said Olga Oliker, senior international policy analyst at Rand Corp.

But Oliker noted that the case still raises questions about why the network operated in various cities away from the centre of US government.

"This particular program has been in place for some time so it's very possible that a certain amount of inertia is what kept it going," she said.