2013-03-18 03:16:38+06:00
How tiny cameras have become big business
If you are a fan of action sports you have probably already noticed that putting tiny cameras on people's heads - and in other unlikely locations - has become big business.

As video technology has become smaller and the image quality has got better, these devices are producing visually stunning video clips that are so fast and frenetic, it leaves the viewer somewhat disorientated yet in awe of the feats accomplished by the individual attached to the camera.

With these gadgets we all have the same view as a champion snow boarder dropping down a cliff face, or a motorcycle stunt rider rotating his way out of a "certain death"

situation.

It is exciting to watch.

So it is not surprising that the "take a pair of eyes anywhere" philosophy behind the small action sports cameras has intrigued professionals who have long looked for a method of capturing their surroundings in an easy and convenient way.

For years, police cars have been outfitted with cameras and microphones collecting fuzzy footage and scratchy audio that had limited use.

But now one company, Pivothead, is putting superior technology into sunglasses worn by highway patrol officers in places like Austin, Texas. The glasses are able to capture the details of a driver's face in high-definition and record conversations at higher bit rates using smaller, more precise microphones.

Pivothead's Zach Barbitta says the benefits are many.

"For some professionals it mitigates insurance premiums. No longer does a police officer have to spend his time in court justifying a drunk driver - it was all captured on Pivothead.

Pilots fly and use the footage as training tools. Military personnel have control of protests and can analyze the footage."

Lifeguards use them on the beach to record unfolding events; ski patrols can capture the scene of an accident and play it back for anyone who needs to see it, such as doctors and safety inspectors; coaches can use the glasses to analyse gameplay or athlete performance.

Brinno Inc starting making a video camera specially for front mounting onto bicycles.

The engineers behind the TLC200 were keen to record multi-day bike rides, but had found the typical 30 frames-per-second HD sports cameras consumed too much battery power and memory.

The gadgets simply fizzled out after a couple of hours use. The video camera they created lasted seven days on one charge, taking one frame every second - still a satisfactory way to remember any bike ride.

More importantly the efficiency of the unit has made it appealing to law enforcement agencies, including the police department in Newport Beach, California.

The camera is mounted on bicycles and is set to record three frames per second, the lowest frame rate allowed as evidence in courts, according to Chris Adams, from Brinno Inc, who says other professionals, including teachers, have found it very useful.