2008-02-27 00:00:00+06:00
Get rid of cyber crime, drug addiction to save youths




Chief Adviser Fakhruddin Ahmed yesterday said it is very urgent to get rid of the alarming situation as cyber crime, drug addiction, terrorism and other serious crimes cast negative impact on a large section of juvenile and youths and often ruin their life.

“So, an ideal and just leadership, and world citizens with humane values are essential… world Scout movement can play a pivotal role in this regard,” he said at a scouting award giving function.

The Scout movement can also make significant contributions to country and nation building, he added.

The CA was distributing 'Shapla Cub Scouting Award', the highest award in Cub Scouting, at the International Conference Centre (ICC) at the Chief Adviser's Office.

The Cub Scouts, children aged 6 to 11 years, take Cub scouting training under Bangladesh Scouts in the country to achieve the highest award `Shapla Cub'. This time, 81 cub scouts - 60 boys and 21 girls - from across the country obtained the Shapla Award. So far, 1,296 cub scouts earned this prestigious award.

The chief adviser distributed the prizes among the cub scouts' representatives of Dhaka, Chittagong, Rajshahi, Khulna, Barisal, Comilla and Railway regions.

Chief National Commissioner of Bangladesh Scouts Md Fazlur Rahman and National Commissioner (programme) Abul Kalam Azad also spoke at the function, chaired by Bangladesh Scouts president Dr Shah Mohammad Farid.

Cub scouts and their guardians and officials of Bangladesh Scouts were present at the function.

Addressing the function, the CA said the government has extended all-out cooperation to intensify the scouts movement in the country and it would continue in the future.

He noted that already it has been possible to form cub team in most government and non-government primary schools through `Cubing Expansion project' of the Primary and Mass Education Ministry.

He called for introducing the programme in all primary schools to groom children and juvenile as self-dependent and worthy citizens.

He urged all concerned to come forward with meaningful programmes to further strengthen and consolidate the scouting movement to create a skilled workforce as well as honest and

competent leadership.

He also called for making scouting as a social movement to make a successful and prosperous enlightened Bangladesh for the future generation.

Congratulating the award-winning cub scouts for their great achievement, Fakhruddin urged all concerned to extensively spread the programme prepared for attaining Shapla Award at the grassroots level.

Mentioning that at present, there are 10 lakh scouts inBangladesh, he urged the leaders of Bangladesh Scouts to take effective initiative to further increase the number of scouts, their qualitative standard and skill.