2015-07-01 17:13:00+06:00
Barisal top cop suspended for 'bribe collection'
The home ministry has suspended Zillur Rahman, a deputy commissioner of Barisal Metropolitan Police (BMP), for alleged collection of bribe money for promotion.

According to an order signed by Senior Home Secretary Mozammel Haque Khan, the action was taken against the police officer for breaching discipline, corruption, misconduct and damaging image of the police department.

On the other hand, the Police Headquarters in a press release said the suspended police officer was transferred to the DIG office of Sylhet range.

The release also added that the decision was made after primary allegations against Zillur were proved in the investigation of the headquarters.

It is alleged that a section of policemen created a joint fund of around Tk 77 lakh to bribe their superiors to expedite the promotion of 230 Barisal cops.

The suspended police officer was allegedly mediating the matter and given an amount from the collected money.

All was well until some of the cops complained to higher authorities, finding the process longer than they expected.

The bribe fund got exposed; the department earlier suspended 10 personnel of Barisal Metropolitan Police (BMP).

The suspended cops are assistant sub-inspectors Anisuzzaman, Monir Hossain and Md Hanif; nayek Kabir Hossain; drivers Shahidul Islam, Bablu Jamaddar and Dolon Baral; ration-storekeepers Abbas Uddin and Arifur Rahman; and constable Tapas Kumar Mandal.

"They were suspended for illegal money collection for promotion," BMP Commissioner Shaibal Kanti Chowdhury said, adding the suspension order reached Barisal from police headquarters on Monday and it was executed the same day.

Meanwhile, Inspector General of Police AKM Shahidul Hoque in a press release said, “We follow ‘zero tolerance’ strategy against criminals. If any police official commits any criminal act or corruption, he will not be considered as police…Departmental actions will be taken against those breaking the discipline and misconduct.”

According to BMP sources, collection of money for the joint bribe fund began in January.

Some 600 personnel sat for departmental tests successfully in October last year; 230 of them passed and were awaiting promotion.

The 10 cops, who have been suspended, were also on the merit list. They made others believe that only the exam success won't work, and started setting up the fund with each of the 230 personnel contributing Tk 30,000 to Tk 50,000, sources added.

According to BMP Commissioner Shaibal, around Tk 77 lakh was collected under the fund.

Of the money, Tk 17 lakh was deposited with a joint account of ASI Anisuzzaman, nayek Kabir Hossain and driver Bablu at a Dutch-Bangla Bank branch in Barisal.

The rest of the money was given to Zillur Rahman, he said.

Hearing the allegation, the BMP formed a three-member probe committee on June 13. "We formed the committee as we came to know about the bribe fund. And we found the allegation true," said Shaibal.

Meanwhile, the police headquarters formed another probe committee on June 17. The committee summoned Zillur Rahman, Bablu Jamaddar, Kabir and Monir to Dhaka.

Based on the investigation of security cell of the police headquarters, this committee recommended suspending the 10 cops.