2015-05-09 18:14:00+06:00
Terrified 13-year-old bravely fights off her would-be rapist (video)
Police in northern California have launched a massive manhunt for a 'bold' would-be rapist who tried to attack a 13-year-old girl as she was opening her door to return home, reports Daily Mail.

Disturbing home surveillance video shows the man stalking the girl as she walks to her porch before he forces his way into the San Jose property on Tuesday.

Fortunately, the girl fought back and slapped the man in the face causing him to flee, but not before his face had been captured on camera.

The girl then locked herself in a closet and texted her father, “Daddy come home now. Some guy tried to rape me.”

Speaking to ABC News, the girl who wishes to remain anonymous said that she first saw the man approaching her as she was thinking of relaxing after a day at school.

She said he walked up to her front porch with her and said he was lost and then asked her how old she was and what her name was.

According to the girl, he then began asking inappropriate questions.

“That's when I decided to run inside the house because I'd already unlocked it,” said the girl to ABC News.

“I tried to slam the door on him but I couldn't.”

Managing to hit her attacker in the face, making him flee, the girl then went to hide in a closet and sent her father a text saying, “Daddy, come home now. Some guy tried to rape me.”

Police arrived and began their search for the man who is also wanted in another alleged sexual assault.

They want to speak to him in relation to an April attack in San Jose after a 28-year-old woman was assaulted in a grocery store restroom.

Authorities also warned residents in the neighbourhood to beware and to stay on guard.

The suspect is described as a white man of around 30, with medium build, and a beard.

Sgt Enrique Garcia of the San Jose Police Department said he believed the perpetrator would attack again.

“Without a doubt,” he said. “These guys are predators.”

“He's not concerned about being caught, since he's doing this in broad daylight.”

Back at home, the 13-year-old said she was relieved to be safe.

“I'm really happy I'm safe,' the teenager said, 'but I'm still really scared. I'm really low on trusting the outside world anymore.”