2015-05-25 13:53:00+06:00
Ask cops to take rape complaints: HC to govt
The High Court today ordered the government to make sure that police accept any rape complaint and give services to all victims without discrimination.

The court came up with the order citing reports that the recent gang rape of a minority community woman in Dhaka did not get proper police attention.

- HC tells govt to put notices at all police stations

- Asks explanation why Garo victim’s complaint was initially not accepted

- Govt show-caused on why not compensate the indigenous victim

On May 21, a 21-year-old woman from the Garo ethnic community was forced into a microbus near Jamuna Future Park and gang-raped in Dhaka, and later dropped at Jashimuddin road.

Media reports had it that police stations initially dillydallied in taking her complaint.

Citing those reports, the High Court today ordered the government to put out a circular directing all police stations to record any rape complaint.

Moved by a writ petition filed by five rights groups, the court also ordered to ensure that police give services to all victims without regard for religion, gender, caste or place of birth.

A compliance report was also sought from home secretary, inspector general of police and Dhaka Metropolitan Police (DMP) commissioner by a month.

The HC also asked for explanation from authorities by two weeks as to why the delay of police in recording the first information report (FIR) of the Garo victim would not be declared illegal.

The bench of Justice Farah Mahbub and Justice Kazi Mohammad Ezarul Haque Akondo also sought reason over the wait in sending the victim to a support centre and medical facility.

The judges also asked the government to show-cause why the High Court will not pass out an order to compensate the victim.

The writ was moved by rights groups Nari Pakkha, Bangladesh Mahila Parishad, Jatiya Adivasi Parishad, Bangladesh Legal Aid and Services Trust (BLAST) and Ain O Shalish Kendra – yesterday.