2013-05-27 00:46:09+06:00
Vandalism, explosions mark hartal
Stray incidents of vandalism and cocktail explosions marked yesterday's countrywide daylong hartal called by the BNP-led 18-party alliance.

The shutdown, fifth this month, disrupted normal life and affected the economy and education badly. And it dealt a big blow to the poor, particularly the daily wage earners.

In the capital, BNP central leaders were hardly seen on the streets during the hartal hours as per what the alliance said was its new strategy to avoid arrest.

The opposition combine enforced the shutdown demanding restoration of the caretaker government system for holding the general election and unconditional release of its leaders, and protesting the "ban" on meetings and rallies.

During the hartal, a clash between hartal supporters and police left at least 10 people injured in Narayanganj. Seven vehicles including a police van were vandalised by pro-hartal pickets.

In Dhaka, the presence of vehicles including buses and CNG-run three-wheelers on the streets during the hartal yesterday was more than during the previous shutdowns but private cars mostly kept off the streets. Shopping malls and roadside shops remained closed.

Pickets blasted crude bombs in Adabar area of Mohammadpur, Tejgaon, Shahbagh, Gabtoli and Uttara areas. They vandalised several vehicles in different parts of the city including Panthapath and Mirpur-10.

Hartal-related violence yesterday was less than during other hartals enforced recently.

Huge contingents of police and Rapid Action Battalion were deployed at all the key points of the capital. Law enforcers were deployed near the BNP's Nayapaltan central office.

About the absence of BNP central leaders on the city streets, party spokesperson Shamsuzzaman Dudu said, "It is part of the alliance strategy. We don't want our leaders to be arrested anymore. Police have already arrested thousands of our leaders and activists across the country."

Speaking at a post-hartal press conference at the BNP headquarters, he said the opposition is giving more importance to dialogue than agitation because in democracy all problems can be solved through discussion.

"If the government does not give importance to dialogue, then a solution will come through street agitation," he said.

In Narayanganj, activists of the BNP and Jubo Dal clashed with police at Charargop in the city soon after the hartal began at 6:00am. At least 10 people were injured in the clash.

Police said the activists also vandalised five vehicles including a police van. Police dispersed the hartal supporters firing blank shots.

Hartal supporters also vandalised a BRTC bus and a CNG-run auto-rickshaw in Khanpur area around 6:30am.

Incidents of vandalism and explosion of crude bombs also took place in Chittagong, Sylhet and Satkhira. Pickets blocked highways and roads with logs in Chandpur and Satkhira, report our correspondents.