2013-03-13 00:00:07+06:00
Vandalism, explosions mark hartal
Stray incidents of vandalism, cocktail explosions and clashes between activists of the BNP-led alliance and law enforcers marked yesterday's dawn-to-dusk shutdown by the 18-party combine.

At least 29 people, including two policemen, were injured when BNP men clashed with police in Sirajganj and Rajshahi. Pro-hartal activists also clashed with ruling party men in Dinajpur and Brahmanbaria.

Apart from blasting cocktails, opposition activists vandalised and set fire to vehicles in at least eight districts, report our district correspondents.

The BNP-led opposition called the hartal minutes after some cocktails had been blasted some 250 feet from a rally in front of the BNP central office in the capital's Nayapaltan area Monday afternoon.

Meanwhile, a dawn-to-dusk hartal was called in Kulaura upazila of Moulvibazar for today, protesting the arrest of central BNP leader Abed Raza and demanding his release.

In Dhaka, a very few opposition leaders and activists were seen on the streets during the hartal hours. Pickets blasted bombs at Mohammadpur, Mirpur-1 and set fire to vehicles in Khilkhet, Mirpur, Saidabad, Green Road, Gulshan Avenue and Jatrabari areas.

Meanwhile, two cocktail like substances were recovered from the road beside the International Crimes Tribunal set in the High Court area in Dhaka for war crimes trial.

Huge contingents of law enforcers were deployed at all the key points of the city. Though less than normal, public transports were seen in good numbers on the city thoroughfares.

Like other hartal days, law enforcers stood guard around the BNP's head office from yesterday morning. The party leaders and activists did not turn up at the office as most of their top leaders were detained on the eve of the hartal.

Police, however, picked up advocate Masududdin Ahmed Talukder, religious affairs secretary of BNP, and his assistant around 11:20am when they tried to enter the party office.

Pro-hartal activists torched a bus in Dhalpur of Saidabad and set fire to a staff bus of Palli Bidyut Office at Khilkhet. Pickets also torched a truck in Dhamrai on the outskirts of the capital.

In Mirpur-1, a bus driver sustained minor injuries when pro-hartal activists vandalised his vehicle in the morning. The pickets also vandalised a private car at Gulshan Avenue.

Hartal supporters exploded six cocktails in Mirpur-1 and three near Health and Hope Hospital at Green Road. In Dania of Jatrabari, opposition activists blasted several homemade bombs after they brought out a procession around 7:00am.

In Sirajganj, opposition activists clashed with policemen in Sadar upazila, leaving 20 people, including a police constable, injured. Critically injured police constable Belal Hossain was shifted to Dhaka.

A group of BNP activists brought out a procession around 8:30am in Bazar Station area of the district headquarters but they got dispersed in the face of police resistance.

Moments later, the BNP men, being equipped with sticks and brick chips, regrouped and attacked the law enforcers, triggering an hour-long clash that left Belal injured, said Rafiqul Islam, officer-in-charge of Sirajganj Sadar Police Station.

In Rajshahi, nine people, including a police constable of Boalia Police Station, were injured in clashes between pickets and policemen in Rajarhata, Hetemkha, Kajirganj, Dingadoba and Dorikhorgona. The clashes erupted when hartal supporters blocked roads in the areas by burning tyres and were resisted by police.

In Dinajpur, three people were injured as pro-hartal activists were locked in a clash with anti-hartal activists. The clash erupted around 12:30pm in Chirirbandar upazila when AL men tried to resist the pickets at Andarmuha village of the upazila.

In Chittagong city, pickets exploded four crackers and burned two tyres around 11:00am at Kazirdewri near a BNP office in Nasiman Bhaban.

Opposition activists set fire to a bus at Chhotopul in the city around 12:00noon and vandalised three CNG-run three-wheelers at Kazirdewri, Chowkbazar and Love Lane areas. The hartal supporters torched a truck on the Dhaka-Chittagong highway at Banshbaria in Sitakunda.

Three people were injured as chase and counter-chase took place between the leaders and activists of Jatiyatabadi Chhatra Dal (JCD) associated with the BNP and Chhatra League associated with the ruling AL at TA Road in Brahmanbaria yesterday after JCD leaders had brought out a procession.

At Fatehpur of Comilla, a constable was injured when pickets hurled brick chips at policemen.

Pickets vandalised at least 25 vehicles, including two trucks and 11 motorbikes in Ghuingarhat area in Bhola, six vehicles on the Chandpur-Comilla road and another truck in Jhenidah. Pro-hartal activists also torched two goods-laden trucks in Jhenidah.

Similar incidents of vandalism, explosion and arson took place in Comilla, Bogra, Pabna, Mymensingh and Narayanganj. Pickets blocked highways and roads by logs in Comilla, Chandpur, Rangpur, Laksam and Barisal.

They also obstructed rail communication by laying logs on the rail tracts at Amuda in Laksam.