2016-01-22 00:00:00+06:00
Raped second time for seeking justice
A housewife of a Hindu family has allegedly been raped twice by the same man in the span of just three days in Baniarchang upazila of Habiganj.

The first incident of rape reportedly took place in the victim's house at Uttar Sangor village on January 14, and she was raped again at her home in the early hours of Monday, according to the victim's family.

The culprit, Monu Miah, younger brother of a local Awami League leader, was arrested yesterday after the victim filed a case Monday morning.

Monu, 32, also from the same village, is the younger brother of Idris Miah, president of Mondori union of AL.

Sources said Monu and his friends stormed the victim's house on the January 14 afternoon when her husband and her son were outside, and raped her.

Her family took up the matter to village elders and sought justice through arbitration.

Infuriated with this, Monu and his accomplices forced their way into the victim's house in the wee hours of Monday again, tied up her husband and son, and took turns to rape her in another room and left, police said, quoting the victim's husband.

Later, her family members found her in an unconscious state and took her to Habiganj Sadar Hospital.

Mohosin Kabir, resident medical officer at the hospital, said the woman was seriously injured.

Confirming the incident, Nirmalendu Chakrabarty, officer-in-charge of Baniarchang Police Station, said the victim filed a case with the police station, accusing Monu Miah, his accomplice Ustar Miah and 2-3 unnamed people.

Police arrested Monu yesterday and were trying to catch other criminals, the OC added.

The victim's husband said, “Monu had long been asking my wife to have an illicit relationship with him but she refused.”

“This is the reason why he raped my wife,” he added.

However, Monu's brother Idris Miah refuted the allegation of his brother's involvement.

Meanwhile, people of the Hindu community expressed outrage over the incident.

Trilok Kanti Chowdhury Bijon, president of Habiganj chapter of Bangladesh Jatiya Hindu Mohajot, said, “This brutality is not at all acceptable.”

He demanded immediate arrest of other culprits and exemplary punishment of them.