2015-12-06 18:22:29+06:00
‘Bangladesh reviewing ties with Pakistan’
Foreign Minister AH Mahmood Ali today said the government is assessing the relationship between Bangladesh and Pakistan and thinking about what measures need to be taken over the reaction of Islamabad after the execution of two war criminals last month.

“The whole matter is a continuous process,” he said while addressing a discussion at WVA auditorium in Dhaka.

Ekattorer Ghatak-Dalal Nirmul Committee organised the discussion on “Relationship between Bangladesh-India in the Touchstone of Time” to mark the 44th anniversary of the recognition of India to Bangladesh as an independent country.

Hours after Bhutan’s recognition, India recognised an independent Bangladesh on December 6 in 1971.

The minister said many Pakistanis have admitted the crimes committed during the Liberation War in 1971. “But now there is no benefit of denying it saying that they did not do anything. It’s ridiculous.”

Earlier on November 22, Pakistan's foreign ministry made a statement, voicing “deep concern and anguish” over the capital punishments of Jamaat leader Mojaheed and BNP leader Salauddin. It prompted Bangladesh to summon the Pakistan envoy in Dhaka for lodging a formal protest.

In an apparent response to Bangladesh's move, Pakistan Earlier on November 30 summoned acting high commissioner of Bangladesh Maushumi Rahman to its foreign ministry and denied committing any war crimes or atrocities during the 1971 Liberation War.

Pakistan also rejected Bangladesh's statement that trashed Islamabad's concern over the recent executions of war criminals Ali Ahsan Mohammad Mojaheed and Salauddin Quader Chowdhury.

Bangladesh handed over the protest note to the Pakistan high commissioner in Dhaka after summoning him to the foreign ministry on November 23, a day after Pakistan issued a statement over the executions.

Pakistan's latest move triggered outrage in Bangladesh as war crimes trial campaigners accused the country of “resorting to falsehood” over its role in 1971.

ON BANGLADESH-INDIA RELATION

Talking about the country’s relationship with India, Ali said the relationship between Bangladesh and India is now in a very good state after 1975. “The problems lie between Bangladesh and India is psychological which needs to be resolved with the participation of everyone.”

While pointing out different indicators of good relationship between the countries, he said the Bangladesh Visa Office in Agartala has been upgraded to Assistant High Commission and an Assistant High Commissioner took over the charges today.

Eminent historian Prof Muntassir Mamoon said the relationship between Bangladesh and India was stronger until 1975 and deteriorated between 1975 and 1995. The relationship was slightly upgraded during the Awami League regime in 1996-2001 and again worsened from 2001-2006.

The relationship has been upgraded since 2009, he said.