2015-12-09 23:29:17+06:00
[WATCH] Pakistan lying about 1971 genocide
How can Pakistan deny that it did not commit any genocide in 1971? The worldwide condemnations against such genocide and the historic evidences which remain tell us that Pakistan is lying about its heinous act.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan on November 30 summoned the acting Bangladesh High-Commissioner in Pakistan and denied the allegation of genocide saying, “Pakistan also rejected insinuation of complicity in committing crimes or war atrocities. Nothing could be further from the truth.”



Archer Kent Blood, the then US Consul General in East Pakistan

But, as a matter of fact, the whole world knows about the nine months of massacre that the then West Pakistan forces carried out in Bangladesh (then East Pakistan) 44 years back.With the help of their collaborators - Razakar, al-Badr, and al-Shams, the Pakistan forces ended up killing around 30,00,000 people, the only instance of killing so many people within such a small duration.Over 200,000 women also became victims of systematic rape carried out by the Pakistan forces. Thousands of houses were looted and burnt down, villages were devastated. More than 10 million people took refuge in neighbouring India to save their lives.The Rape of Bangladesh by Anthony Mascarenhas, Massacre by Robert Payne, and Against Our Will: Men, Women and Rape by Susan Brownmiller are among the first. The 1971 genocide ranks as one of the most brutal genocides of the 20th century, alongside the Jewish Holocaust in Nazi Germany, the Holocaust of Soviet POWs by the German army in World War II, and the Rwandan genocide.According to the, Pakistan Army men killed more than 6,000 people in Dhaka after issuing a curfew in an operation code-named “Operation Search Light” on March 25, 1971 at midnight.GW Choudhury, then a minister in Pakistan President Yahya Khan’s cabinet, wrote that thein his book The Last Days of United Pakistan (UPL, 1993).The diary logs of Major General Rao Farman Ali, who led the massacre on March 25, 1971 in Dhaka, included a list of the names of Dhaka University teachers, many of which were checkmarked to be executed.Although Farman Ali deniedand blamed it on another Pakistan Army official General Jamshed. It was later known that General Jamshed co-ordinated the Razakars, while Farman Ali did the same with the al-Badr forces.Archer K Bloodin a telegram to the US State Department.

Report of the Hamoodur Rahman Commission, which was formed by Pakistan government, vividly pointed out massacre, rape and mass murder of Hindu people by the Pakistan Army personnel in East Pakistan. Pakistan did not disclose the report for many years.