2016-06-12 00:00:00+06:00
One more killed in 'gunfight'
One man was killed and two others injured during “gunfights” with police in Narail, Jessore and Satkhira districts early yesterday.

The dead was identified as Rakib, 30, son of Mokhles Hossain of Chanchai village of Lohagara upazila in Narail.

With the latest, 11 people have now been killed in “shootouts” or “gunfights” since the killing of the wife of the superintendent of police in Chittagong on Sunday.

Biplob Kumar Saha, officer-in-charge of Lohagora Police Station, said that on receiving information that a band of robbers were preparing for a robbery, a team of police launched a drive at Dighalia Dokkhinpara village in the upazila around 2:30am.

Sensing presence of the law enforcers, the gang members opened fire prompting retaliation from police. Rakib was hit by a bullet in this exchange.

He was rushed to Lohagora Upazila Health Complex where doctors declared him dead.

Other members of the gang escaped. Rakib was wanted in 12 cases, including robberies, the OC said.

In Jessore, Abu Ichha, 45, outgoing member of Raipur Union Parishad of Bagharpara, was hit by a bullet during a gunfight between police and robbers at Kodalia on Jessore-Maguara Road around 4:00am, OC of Bagharpara Sairuddin Ahmed said.

His wife Afroza Begum, however, claims that a team of eight to 10 policemen picked up Ichha from their Naldanga residence around 2:00am yesterday.

“In the morning, I came to know that my husband is in the hospital. He was shot in one leg,” she said.

The victim was initially taken to Jessore Medical College Hospital, but was later shifted to Dhaka when his condition deteriorated, sources at Jessore Medical College said.

Sanjit Adhikary, son of Kartik Adhikary of Jalalpur village of the upazila and a known activist of the outlawed Purba Banglar Communist Party, was injured in a 'gunfight' with police at Tegharia in Tala of Satkhira.

Kamal Hossain, sub-inspector of Tala Police Station, said a police team on receiving a tip-off conducted a drive in Tegharia around 1:30am where Sanjit and his cohorts were staying.

The gang members opened fire at the police triggering retaliation. Sanjit received bullet-wounds in the fire exchange, he said.

Police arrested Sanjit while the other gang members managed to flee. Sanjit has been admitted to Satkhira Sadar Hospital under police custody.