None
Robbery suspect killed in ‘gunfight’
A suspected robber was killed in an alleged ‘gunfight’ with Rapid Action Battalion at Budhpara area under Motihar police in Rajshahi city, early Sunday.

The deceased was identified as Kawser Hossain, a resident of Chapainawabganj sadar. He had two murder cases among four filed against him, RAB said in a press release.

However, family members of the man claimed that he was arrested by law enforcement agencies in Dhaka on January 26. They said law enforcement officers simply killed him.

In the morning the battalion held a press conference at RAB-5 headquarters in Rajshahi and said that a RAB patrol vehicle reached there around 2:45am when a gang of robbers opened gunshots on them.

RAB personnel, to protect them, also retaliated, prompting a gunfight, the press was told.

Kawser received bullet-wounds in the gunfight and later was taken to Rajshahi Medical College and Hospital where on-duty physicians declared him dead, RAB said. The body was kept at the hospital morgue for post mortem examination.

Assistant superintendant of police Ramjan Ali who was leading the patrol, told reporters that they also recovered a pistol, a magazine and four bullets from the spot.

Abul Kalam Azad, the elder brother of Kawser Hossain, who is a police constable at Dhaka Range police, told New Age that his younger brother and another person, named, Sirajul Islam were arrested by plainclothes RAB men at Mirpur in Dhaka, on January 26.

Three days later Sirajul was released from RAB custody and told Kawser’s family that he had been arrested.

‘I personally visited the RAB-4 headquarters to learn about my brother’s whereabouts but RAB denied providing me any information,’ Azad said.

He said RAB advised him not to file any general diary and, instead, keep on searching for Kawser.

‘You will find him…keep on looking for him,’ a RAB official was quoted by Azad as saying. That was why the family did not insist police to file any GD, New Age was told by Azad.

Using Kawser’s mobile they rang Azad and told him–early in the morning– that Kawser was wounded in a road accident and was undergoing treatment at Rajshahi Medical College Hospital, in critical condition, the elder brother said.

‘I along with my family members had rushed the RMCH and found his body inside the morgue. It is clearly a murder by the law enforcement agency and I will lodge a case against them’, he added.

A senior official of RAB-5, major A AM Ashraful Islam, while talking to New Age brushed aside the claim made by the slain man’s brother and said, ‘he made false statements against RAB’.

More about: