None
Govt must explain Tavella murder claim conflicts
THE Rapid Action Battalion’s statement of Friday that the chief of the reorganised Islamist outfit Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh Sarwar Jahan — also known as Shaykh Abu Ibrahim Al Hanif, who was killed in a law enforcement raid on religious extremism on the Savar outskirts of the capital — planned and executed the killing of Italian aid worker Cesare Tavella, shot dead in the diplomatic neighbourhood of Gulshan in Dhaka on September 28, 2015, has raised eyebrows because the battalion’s take on him on the murder mismatches with what the police now claim or then claimed. The police after investigation charged seven people, including opposition Bangladesh Nationalist Party leader MA Quayum, in July this year. The trial proceedings have begun, with Quayum being shown absconding in the case. The battalion also came up with some information, as New Age repored on Saturday, to substantiate its claim saying that Sarwar Jahan, who became involved with Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen in 1998 and had earlier been arrested, signed a resolution on July 21, 2015 to establish ‘khilafah in Bengal’. Such conflicting claims bring the two units of the law enforcement into a dubious propostion as one being correct nullifies the other.

The more grave point in the matter is that if the police claim about the Tavella murder, which was reached on investigation spanning more than eight months, were correct, the battalion’s claim would stand nowhere. Conversely, if the battalion’s claim about Sarwar Jahan’s involvement in the Tavella murder were to be true, the police investigation about the murder in question would in no way be correct and the murder case, in which an opposition activist is accused, now in trial stages would lose its significance and would not need to be acted on. In the event of the battalion’s claim being true, the court of law should dispose of the case as being flawed, ask the police to explain their potentially flawed investigation and hold the police to account for their inefficiency. This is a question of the rule of law and a compromise on this would call into question the basic tenets of justice dispensation that no innocent people could be punished, and the guilty should be punished to deter the repeat of the offence and even if it does no good in deterring any future occurrence of the offence.

The police are reported by the media to have reserved comments on whether the battalion’s claim on the perpetrator of the Tavella murder conflicts with that of the police, with the case pending trial in court. The conflicting situation might have come about because of a tussle going on between the two units of law enforcement for some time. Now the government, especially the home ministry which controls all law enforcement agencies, must come up with a convincing explanation of the matter and take steps accordingly as neither of the claims could be simultaneously correct.

More about: