None
Murder case filed over Diaz death
CU asst proctor, BCL CU president among 20 sued

20 people including an assistant proctor of Chittagong University and the president of Bangladesh Chhatra League CU unit were accused in a case filed over the death of the party’s central assistant secretary Diaz Irfan Chowdhury on Thursday.

Jaheda Amin Chowdhury, mother of Diaz Irfan, filed the case against 10 named and 10 unnamed with the court of Chittagong senior judicial magistrate Shiblu Kumar Dey around 12:30pm.

The accused, among others, were former CU BCL secretary Jamshedul Alam Chowdhury, CU assistant proctor Anwar Hossain Chowdhury, BCL CU unit president Mohammed Alamgir Tipu, CU BCL leaders Rashedul Alam Jishan, Abu Torab Porosh, Mansur Alam, Abdul Malek, Mizanur Rahman, Ariful Hoque Apu and Mohammad Arman.

The court accepted the case and directed Criminal Investigation Department to investigate into the death and submit a report within 30 days, said Gourango Bikash Chowdhury, the plaintiff’s attorney.

Diaz’s family also held a press conference at Chittagong Press Club around 4:30pm where Diaz’s mother alleged that Diaz was killed by the accused and they were trying to destroy the evidence of murdering Diaz.

She alleged that the law enforcers were working at the behest of the Diaz’s murderers.

Diaz’s family rejected the post-mortem report that said Diaz committed suicide which was handed over to the police by Chittagong Medical College and Hospital forensic department on Wednesday.

Diaz sister Zubaida Sarwar Chowdhury Nisha termed the report as ‘fabricated’ and ‘distorted’.

She said, ‘The accused, Alamgir Tipu, gave an interview to a newspaper on November 21 that he knew about the Diaz’s post- mortem report where the cause of his death was mentioned as suicidal, but the port-mortem report was published on November 23.’

Meanwhile, some BCL leaders and activists blocked a CU teacher’s bus and abducted the driver from Chittagong city’s Jamtala area in the morning and freed him after he had agreed to their demand of not driving the bus.

Sholosohor Railway Station master Sahab Uddin told New Age that train services to and from the university were discontinued due to lack of security.

Diaz was found hanging in his residence near Chittagong University on Sunday.

Since the incident, the family has been claiming that Diaz, also former vice-president BCL CU unit, was killed in a planned way by his rivals following a dispute over dropping a tender for construction of the university buildings.