None
Alarming new dimension of extrajudicial murder
EXTRAJUDICIAL killings by law enforcement agencies had an alarming rise in 2016. At least 195 people were killed in ‘crossfire’, ‘gunfight’, and ‘exchange of bullets’ with law enforcers and in their custody in 2016, as New Age reported on Sunday, while the number of people killed in such incidents was 192 in 2015 and 128 in 2014. What is more alarming is that, as an Ain O Salish Kendra report says, some 61 per cent of the 195 extrajudicial murders were perpetrated by the police. It is all the more so as the revelation lends credence to the allegation that while the Rapid Action Battalion, which increasingly resorted to the unconstitutional means of tackling crimes since its inception in 2004 but largely appeared to be backtracking on the heinous tactics in the face of criticism from national and international rights defenders, the police are increasingly making efforts to fill in the blank. The Ain O Salish Kendra report blamed 28 per cent of the 2016 extrajudicial murders on the battalion.

There are, of course, little reasons for surprise at the situation if the way the incumbents have given free hand to the police, especially after the controversial January 5, 2014 polls that helped the government to retain power, to tackle movement organised by the Bangladesh Nationalist Party and its allies, in particular, is taken into account. It was the period when, like their peers in other law enforcement units, the police engaged in various crimes for earning illegal money in a growing manner without any redress for the victims. However, as a regular law enforcement agency, the police are to play a key role in ensuring safety and security for people’s lives and property. Besides, the force is supposed to respect rules and regulations keeping to the constitution in playing the role. Above all, the crimes, including extrajudicial murders, allegedly perpetrated its members, if allowed to go unabated, will not only embolden criminals to engage in further crimes but also encourage ordinary people to think that they are entitled to take law into their own hands when it comes to fighting crimes, which may end up leading society into lawlessness.

As we mentioned in these columns on several occasions earlier, the government should immediately take note of the report and investigate all the incidents of rights violation in a credible and acceptable manner. It is all the more important as far as the compliance with its earlier pledge to establish the rule of law is concerned. However, it cannot be denied that the government is unlikely to allow this to happen on its own unless and until there is a huge pressure from conscious sections of society on it about the issue.

More about: