None
Speedy disposal of 7-murder case increased people’s trust in judiciary: CJ
Chief Justice Surendra Kumar Sinha.--Focusbangla photo

Chief Justice SK Sinha said Tuesday that speedy disposal of the sensational seven-murder case in Narayanganj increased common man’s trust on the judiciary.

The remarks were posted on the website of the Supreme Court to mark completion of his 2nd year as the Chief Justice.

The sensational murders by some influential RAB men with the attitude of impunity stunned the nation, said the Chief Justice.

He said that the criminals were speedily brought to justice due to the Supreme Court’s timely intervention.

The Chief Justice said that the disposal of the case within shortest time increased common people’s trust on the judiciary.

The Chief Justice said that he would expect that the differences with the government over the nitty-gritty relating to notification of the disciplinary rules for the lower court judges would be over soon.

He said any scope for the executive branch to interfere with lower court judges discipline was bound to create obstructions in delivering justice independently.

The Chief Justice said that that draft rules were written as it was essential for the lower court judges to have separate disciplinary rules consistent to its distinctive nature and pattern of their work.

He in this regard reminded all that there were separate service rules in place for each department of the state.

The Chief Justice requested the government to allot a 25-acre area for the construction of a National Judicial Academy for providing modern training to judges and carrying out research on the judiciary.

He said the Supreme Court and the lower courts require more judges for timely disposal of increasing number of cases.

He in this regard said already 30 lakh cases awaited disposal by courts, 27 lakh in the lower courts and three lakh in the SC.

He said that shortage of SC judges makes it difficult for him to create benches and distribute of cases among them.

He said that with only 1, 268 judges it became impossible on the part of the lower courts to dispose of 27 lakh pending cases.

The Chief Justice pointed out that out of 1,655 sanctioned posts of judges for the lower courts 287 vacancies awaited replacements for long .