None
No headway in Tonu murder probe in 10 months
Though 10 months have elapsed since the murder of Victoria College student Sohagi Jahan Tonu, there is no visible progress in the investigation into the murder incident.

The investigation agencies could neither identify the motive behind the killing nor the killers yet.

Seeing no progress in the investigation, Tonu’s family members and relatives are getting more frustrated and impassionate.

Sohagi Jahan Tonu, 19, a second-year history student of Comilla Victoria College and a member of Victoria College Theatre, was found dead at Comilla Mainamati Cantonment on March 20, 2016 after she went out of her residence for private tuition.

Tonu’s father Yaar Hossain filed a murder case against some unidentified people with the Kotwali model police.

Police first started investigation into the incident, later the case was transferred to the Detective Branch of police and then shifted to the Criminal Investigation Department on April 1, last.

Though the CID has interrogated several civilians suspecting their link to the murder but could not identify the culprits yet. Besides, the reason of death remained shrouded in mystery following the publication of two post-mortem reports.

Meanwhile, the case investigation getting uncertain as the killers remained untouched although the physicians found sperm of three males in the DNA test, creating obscurity and raising questions about the transparency in the investigation into the case.

Talking to the news agency, Yaar Hossain said the killers of his daughter remained untouched, and demanded their immediate arrest and exemplary punishment.

Tonu’s mother Anwara Begum said, ‘I’ve no hope to see the judgment in my lifetime but I want justice even after my demise.’

Comilla senior superintendent of police (CID) Jalal Uddin and also the investigation officer of the case, said, ‘The investigation is going on in its own way.’

He, however, refused to make any comment over the case.

More about: