None
No more delay in cracking Tonu murder case
IT HAS already been 10 months since the murder of the 19-year-old college girl took place inside the Comilla cantonment but investigations are yet to find the motive of the murder or detect the perpetrators. What is more unfortunate is that the senior superintendent of police (CID), who is the investigation officer, just said that the investigation was going its way. All this is enough to disappoint the victim’s family and friends, who have been demanding justice since the girl was found dead on March 20, 2016 after she had gone out on her tuition job. It yet again also betrays the lack of commitment of the incumbents to establishing the rule of law. One can recall here that no visible progress in the investigation of the murder, which triggered huge public protests, has so far taken place despite repeated assurances from government functionaries, including the home minister, of justice for the victim.

There are reasons to believe that all the assurances might have been given only to assuage the growing protests, as seen in many other cases such as the murder of the journalist couple in February 2012 inside their flat in Dhaka which still remains unsolved. It is important to note that after the first post-mortem had failed to establish the reason for the death, there had been another post-mortem examination in the face of huge public criticism. But the second examination also failed to clearly resolve the case, giving rise to doubts that the reports were anything but objective and might have been influenced by some quarters close to the perpetrators. It was all the more so as the Criminal Investigation Department found sperm of three males in the victim’s dresses through DNA test, indicating that the victim might have been raped before being killed. Meanwhile, although the investigator of the case has so far made the DNA profiling of a number of suspects, he is yet to collect the DNA samples of the people, suspected to be from the security forces that the victim’s family named, for the DNA matching.

The government needs to realise that its failure to live up to its pledge over justice for the victim in question will not only violate the constitutional provision that all are equal in the eye of the law but also embolden criminals to perpetrate similar crimes, contributing to a significant decline in law and order. However, there are reasons to believe that it will hardly understand the reality on its own as its apparent unwillingness to bring the perpetrators of the much-talked-about Twaki murder in Narayanganj to trial has so far denied the victim’s family justice even after the culprits, allegedly tied to the local ruling party unit, being identified. Conscious sections of society, hence, need to raise their sustained voice over the issue.

More about: