None
Playmate murder: Two children accused get HC bail
The High Court on Sunday granted bail until disposing of the case to two children, arrested for their suspected involvement in a murder at Kamrangirchar in Dhaka.

The HC bench of Justice Quazi Reza-Ul Hoque and Justice Mohammad Ullah passed the order after the hearing when police produced them before the court today.

The bench also fixed on March 1 for the next hearing in the case.

Barrister Mohammad Abdul Halim, chairman of Ainjibi Children Charity Bangladesh Foundation, filed a writ petition with the HC and stood for the two children while deputy attorney general Tapash Kumar Biswas represented the state.

Earlier on January 15, the HC bench asked the Dhaka Metropolitan Police commissioner to produce the children before the court today through a top police official.

Barrister Mohammad Abdul Halim said the HC on November 29 last issued a rule asking the police to explain why the arrest of the kids shall not be deemed contrary to sections 13, 14, 44, 45, 47 and 52 of the Children Act.

The court had also asked the police to determine the age of the two kids.

Following the HC order, Lalbagh deputy commissioner and officer-in-charge of Kamrangirchar police station submitted a report on January 4.

According to the petition, the kids, both below nine, were arrested on October 12, 2016, in a case filed over the murder of their playmate Uzzal.

On November 24, 2016, a report titled ‘Identity of the body could not be know yet: 2 children arrested’ published in a vernacular daily.

The report said police recovered the decomposed body of an unidentified child two months ago, and the family members filed a case in this regard 10 days after the recovery of the body. Police arrested two children suspecting their involvement in the murder and later they were sent to the Tongi Juvenile Development Centre by a court.

It said the two children confessed to police their guilt and victim’s family members and a cousin of the victim uploaded two video clips of their testimonies on the social networking site which went viral.

According to the post-mortem report, the victim died after drowning while the accused children claimed that they had been tortured and forced to admit the guilt.