None
No charge sheet in Taqi murder yet
The Rapid Action Battalion is yet to submit its investigation report into the abduction and murder of A-level student Tanwir Muhammad Taqi in Narayanganj in March 2013 even after three years of its announcement about the completion of the investigation.

RAB-11 commanding officer Lieutenant Colonel Kamrul Hasan, however, told New Age on Friday that they were still investigating the case.

Taqi’s father Rafiur Rabbi, a leading cultural activist in Narayanganj, question the delay in the submission of the charge sheet as the investigation and collection of evidences were completed by November 2013 and the battalion had announced in March 2014 that they would submit the charge sheet in weeks.

Rafiur alleged the intervention of the Prime Minister’s Office kept the investigation ‘withheld.’

The investigation officer of the case, assistant police superintendent Shah Md Mashiur Rahman, also a battalion official, declined to comment on the progress in the investigation made in the past three years.

Taqi, 17, an A-level student of the ABC International School in the city, was abducted on March 6, 2013 and his body was found in a canal in the city after two days.

Rafiur filed the case with Narayanganj police station on March 8, 2013 against unnamed people. He, however, named seven people including ruling Awami League lawmaker AKM Shamim Osman, his son Ayon Osman, their associates Jahirul Islam Parvej, who went missing few months after the killing of Taqi, Mizanur

Rahman Sujon, Rajib Das, Saleh Rahman Simanto, and Rifat.

The case was transferred to the battalion for investigation following a High Court order.

In June, 2013, the battalion arrested some suspects and raided office of Ajmeri Osman, son of Shamim’s brother Jatiya Party lawmaker Nasim Osman, in Narayanganj city in August 2013, and found evidence of torture there.

The battalion had arrested three suspects including Yusuf Hossain Liton, 32, and Sultan Showkat Bromor, 27.

Both Yusuf and Sultan made statements before the senior judicial magistrate M Mohiuddin confessing to the killing and naming others, court officials said.

According to them, the two had stated that Taqi was abducted from near Srama Kallyan Office in Narayanganj city and tortured to death at Winner Fashion house. The body was dumped in Kumuduni jora canal.

In March 2014, the then battalion additional director general Ziaul Ahsan told media that they found involvement of Ajmeri Osman and 10 others in Taqi’s murder.

Yusuf reportedly left the country after obtaining bail from the high Court while Sultan was released on October 25, 2015 on a High Court bail.

The victim family believed that Taqi was killed because of his father Rafiur Rabbi’s role against Osman family.

The battalion in March 2014 also cited Rabbi’s support to Narayanganj city mayor Selina Hayat Ivy was the motive behind the murder.

Rabbi suspected that the investigation was delayed by the Prime Minister’s Office because of Osman family’s involvement in the murder.

Sahmim Osman denied the allegation against their family and termed it ‘politically motivated.’

‘Not only Taqi, I also want justice for the disappearances of Parvej and Kamal [who were identified by the battalion as killers of Taqi],’ Shamim said.

Narayanganj civic committee secretary Abdur Rahman demanded justice for the killing of Taqi.

The said the investigation into Taqi murder and the trial should be expedite like the seven-murder case, in which 26 people, including former local Awami League leader Noor Hossain and 16 former members of Rapid Action Battalion were sentenced to death on January 16, 2017 on charge of abductions and murders of seven people in Narayanganj in April 2014

More about: