None
Taqi murderers still at large in Narayanganj
THE legal proceedings in the murder of Tanwir Muhammad Taqi have been stalled for nearly three years. Taqi, of Chashara in Narayanganj, was abducted on March 6, 2013. His body with marks of torture was recovered from the Sitalakhya two days later. Speculation was rife that the group suspected to be involved in the murder of theatre activist Didarul Alam Chanchal, businessman Ashik Islam, Bhulu Saha and Shahidul Islam killed Taqi as well. All the five murders taking place at a short interval left the city gripped in fear and uncertainty. As the brutal details of Taqi’s torture began to come out, hundreds of protesters in Narayanganj and Dhaka erupted in anger demanding exemplary punishment of the killers of Taqi. Local people, including Taqi’s father Rafiur Rabbi and the mayor of the city, pointed the finger at local Awami League leaders, especially Shamim Osman reported to have created a reign of terror to establish dominance in local politics and business and to be hampering the investigation process. The verdict of the infamous seven-murder in Narayanganj and the conviction of 26 people, including ranking officials of the Rapid Action Battalion, sparked hope in a city long deprived of justice, but it had not breathed a sigh of relief since the murderers of Taqi, Chanchal and others are still at large.

Rabbi, when filing the case with the local police, stated that it is because of his role in the Narayanganj City Corporation election that time, and other recent civic movements, including the reduction of bus fare and resumption of state-run bus service on Narayanganj routes that he has been long targeted by local Awami League-backed business groups. Later, in the police investigation, Rabbi’s allegation proved to be true. According to a New Age report on Sunday, in June 2013, three arrested suspects in the case gave statements before judicial magistrate and named Osman’s nephew being involved in the process from planning to the dumping of the body. They said that Taqi had been killed on March 6, 2013 at the directive of Ajmeri Osman in his office on College Road, even his vehicle was used to dump the body into the river. In March 2014, the then additional directors general of RAB confirmed, to media, the alleged involvement of Ajmeri Osman. However, since the announcement of the RAB official in March 2014, no progress has been made in the legal proceedings of the case, the charge sheet is yet to be filed, three arrested suspects are remanded on bail and Ajmeri Osman remains beyond the reach of the law enforcement agencies. It is in this situation the claims of the current government after the verdict of the seven-murders of Narayanganj that it will spare no one involved in criminal activities appears rhetorical and untrue.

In order to prove that justice is an equal public good, the government should immediately make arrangement for a speedy trial of Taqi’s case and end this culture of impunity allegedly enjoyed by elite affiliated to the ruling Awami League.

More about: