None
Supplementary charge sheet submitted in blogger Ananta murder
The investigation officer of blogger Ananta Bijoy Das murder case submitted a supplementary charge sheet pressing terror charges under the Anti-Terrorism Act on Sunday.

Investigation officer in the blogger Ananta Bijoy Das murder case submitted a supplementary charge sheet adding the allegation according to the anti-terrorism act after completion a further query into the killing incident.

Sylhet Metropolitan Police deputy commissioner Zaynal Abedin said that the supplementary charge sheet was sent to the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate’s Court Sunday afternoon.

Earlier on January 18, Criminal Investigation Department inspector Arman Ali, also the investigation officer of the case, handed over the supplementary charge sheet to Airport police station, the police official said.

‘The investigation officer also had applied for approval it in accordance with the Section 40 of the Anti-Terrorism Act 2013,’ said Airport police station officer-in-charge Mosharraf Hossain.

Extremism suspect Shafiur Rahman Farabi was added on the list of accused in the supplementary charge sheet.

Sylhet metropolitan magistrate’s court on October 18, 2016 ordered the further investigation into the case rejecting the previous charge sheet filed on October 9, 2016 pressing charges against five extremism suspects and dropping 10 youths, including photojournalist Idris Ali.

The supplementary charge sheet also pressed charges against the five extremism suspects named in the rejected charge sheet, the police official said.

A banker, Ananta was an activist of Muktamona Blogs and an organiser of Sylhet unit Ganajagaran Mancha. He was hacked to death by a group of masked youths near his house at Nurani Residential Area at Subidbazar in Sylhet city on May 12, 2015.

He was going to his office, Jawabazar Branch of Pubali Bank, at around 8:30am on May 12, 2015, when he came under the attack.

His elder brother Ratneswar Das filed the murder case with Jalalabad police station against four unidentified people.

On May 26, 2015, the case was transferred to the Criminal Investigation Department of police for investigation as the police failed to identify the killers and to arrest anybody.

More about: