None
Another case lodged over murder of villager
Another case was lodged in connection with the murder of a villager at Gondamara under Banshkhali upazila in Chittagong over the proposed coal-fired power plant by local business conglomerate S Alam Group.

The villager Mohammad Ali, 35, sustained injuries when a clash erupted at the power plant site between two groups of people on Wednesday noon and succumbed to his injuries at night at Chittagong Medical College Hospital.

The victim’s wife Rumi Akhter on Monday lodged the case with the court of Banshkhali’s senior judicial magistrate, Shiblu kumar Dey, accusing 29 named and about 150 unnamed persons, according to Kafil Uddin Chowdhury, counsel of the plaintiff.

‘Liakat Ali, convener of Committee to Protect Homestead and Graveyard, was made the main accused in the murder case,’ said Kafil.

He added that the court had taken the case into cognizance and ordered the Banshkhali police to accept the case and take legal measures in this regard.

Earlier on Friday, the Banshkhali police lodged a case in this connection accusing about 200 unidentified persons. The police claimed that they had filed the case as no family member of the deceased came to them for filing a case.

Rejecting the claim, Kafil told New Age that victim’s wife Rumi had gone to the Banshkhali police on Thursday, the day after the killing, but the police did not record her complaint.

Quoting Rumi, her counsel Kafil claimed that that Rumi’s husband Mohammad Ali, along with his two brothers, had gone to the power plant site to attend a views exchange meeting with the plant officials, but at one stage, Liakat and his followers attacked the siblings, leaving them injured.

Mohammad Ali was declared dead after he was taken to CMCH.

On April 4 last year, four villagers were shot dead and 20 people, including 11 police personnel, were injured as villagers clashed with the police during demonstrations against a move to construct the coal-fired power plant.

More about: