None
War crimes: Petition filed against Netrakona AL president
The War Crimes Investigation Agency in Dhaka received a petition from a freedom fighter seeking investigation into allegations of war crimes against the Netrakona district Awami League president Matiur Rahman Khan.

The freedom fighter, Md Shamsuzzoha, also former Netrakona district AL president, submitted the petition to the agency on Monday alleging that Maiur was involved in crimes against humanity during the 11971 Liberation War.

In his petition, Shamsuzzoha alleged that Matiur was involved in attack on houses, looting, abduction, torture and murder of at least two people, including an associate of freedom fighters.

Matiur was made president of Netrokona district AL a few months ago.

Investigation agency chief Mohammad Abdul Hannan Khan told New Age on Thursday that Shamsuzzoha submitted a petition to the investigation agency against one Matiur Rahman Khan.

‘We are not sure whether Matiur is the president or a leader of AL…It could be ascertained after probe,’ he said.

He said that his agency would investigate the allegation.

He, however, said that it was not proper time to say when the allegation would be probed.

He said that the petitioner also submitted some documents.

‘We are yet to go through the petition and the documents,’ he said.

Shamsuzzoha also submitted a ‘secret letter’ about a Peace Committee meeting with locals at a primary school in Netrokona.

The letter, signed by the then Netrokona sub-divisional Peace Committee convener AK Fazlul Huq on August 2, 1971 and forwarded to the then Netrokona sub-divisional officer, showed that Matiur was one of the four speakers at the meeting.

Shamsuzzoha, in his petition, alleged that Razakars looted his house in April 1971 and later the anti-liberation forces led by ‘Al Badr leader Matiur Rahman Khan’ came and vandalised his house before setting it on fire.

The petition also alleged that two people, including a college teacher and a informer of freedom fighters were killed in Netrokona town in raids in mid-August 1971 by anti-liberation forces led by Matiur Rahman Khan.

‘As a victim of Matiur’s atrocities, I filed the case for investigation,’ Shamsuzzoha told New Age.

He said that he had documents and witnesses in support of his allegations.

He said that Matiur was associated with Chattra League, AL’s student wing, before the Liberation War but he opposed the liberation and took side of Pakistanis.

Asked why he did not file his complaint in the past six years after the formation of the International Crimes Tribunal, he said that he required documents to prove his allegation and he got it recently.

Matiur, however, could not be reached for his comments after several attempts over telephone on Thursday.

More about: