None
MP Liton murder: Arms recovered from Quader Khan’s village home
The pistol recovered in a drive at the village home of former Jatiya Party lawmaker of Gaibandha-1 constituency, Abdul Quader Khan, was used in the murder of incumbent Awami League lawmaker, Manjurul Islam Liton, police said.

Sundarganj police in Gaibandha conducted the second drive at the village home of Abdul Quader at Paschim Chhaprahati early Thursday and recovered the pistol along with a magazine, and six bullets, said Atiar Rahman, officer-in-charge of the police station.

The police recovered those digging a hole at the yard of the house, he said.

The pistol was used in the MP Liton murder, the police officer-in-charge added.

The law enforcers started its drive at Quader’s village home (Khan Bari) on Wednesday afternoon.

Earlier, a court in Gaibandha on Wednesday remanded Abdul Quader Khan for 10 days in police custody in connection with the killing of Manjurul Islam Liton.



Retired army colonel and physician Abdul Quader Khan used to live with his family on the third floor apartment of his four-storey house-cum-clinic at Rahman Nagar Ziladarpara in Bogra town from where he was arrested by the detectives Tuesday afternoon.



He has been a prospective candidate for the by-election to Gaibandha-1 constituency, which fell vacant following the killing of Manjurul Islam.



On Wednesday morning, deputy inspector general of police of Rangpur range, Khandaker Golam Faruk, in a press conference at Gaibandha police superintendent’s office claimed that Quader was the mastermind of the shooting death of Manjurul.



‘The killing was committed as per Quader's plan,’ he said.



Quader did it to become the lawmaker afresh of Gaibandha-1 constituency, the DIG claimed.

Meanwhile, police raided Quader’s Bogra residence early Wednesday and seized his microbus, two laptops, four mobile phone sets, and the Virtual Video Recorder of the CCTV, reported our Bogra correspondent.

Quader’s elder brother, Khijir Uddin claimed that his brother was a prey to conspiracy.

Liton was shot at point blank range by miscreants at his village home at Masterpara of Bamandanga union under Sundarganj upazila on December 31, 2016.



He was rushed to Rangpur Medical College Hospital where the physicians declared him dead.