None
5 JMB men to die for Hoshi Kunio murder
Japanese citizen Kunio Hoshi.--New Age file photo

A Special Court in Rangpur on Tuesday handed death sentence to five members of banned Jama’atul Mujahedeen Bangladesh as they were found guilty of murdering Japanese farmer Hoshi Kunio, near his crop farm at Kaunia, Rangpur in 2015.

Hoshi died being shot at by the JMB men from the rear close to the farm he had founded two years ago.

Amid tight security, judge Noresh Chandra Sarker pronounced the verdict in a packed courtroom.

Accused Abu Sayeed was acquitted as his involvement in the murder was not proved.

Death sentence recipients include Masud Rana, 30, and Isahaq Ali, 34, of Poshua Tangailpara, Pirgachha, Rangpur, Liton Miah alias Rafiq , 30, of Gabtoli, Bogra Sadar, Shakhawat Hossain, 33, of Haldiachar, Saghata, Gaibnadha and Ahsanullah Ansari alias Biplob, 25, of Rajarhat, Kurigram.

Ahsanullah is a student of Begum Rokeya University, Rangpur.

Masud, Isahaq, Liton and Shakhawat were in the dock while Ahsanullah is absconding.

Masud is the Rangpur regional commander of JMB, according to the evidence presented by the prosecution.

Accused Nazrul Islam alias Bike Nazrul died in gunfight with the police in Rajshahi City on August 1,2016, said special public prosecutor Rathish Chandra Bhowmik.

On January 6, 2017, accused Saddam Hossain died in separate ‘gunfight’ with the police at Mohammadpur, in the capital, he said.

The court passed no posthumous order on them, he said.

On November 15, 2016, eight accused were indicted in the murder case.

During the trial, 55 prosecution witnesses were examined.

Only one witness defended the accused persons.

On Tuesday morning, the four in the dock looked quite normal while listening to the judge pronouncing their death sentences.

The trial court found evidence that five of the convicts as JMB members targeted the foreigner to create instability in the country and to make Bangladesh economically dysfunctional.

In the observations the court said that the convicts misinterpreted the Islam’s message of peace to commit the heinous crime.

Defence lawyer Abul Hossain said his clients would appeal against their convictions.

On October 3, 2015, Hoshi Kunio,66, were shot to death by the convicts at Alutari area, Kaunia, Rangpur near his farm.

On October 4, 2015, Kaunia police station’s sub-inspector Rejaul Karim filed a case in connection with the murder.

On August 7, 2016, Kaunia police station officer-in-charge Abdul Kader Zilani submitted the charge-sheet in the case.