None
Murder case filed against 800 unnamed people
A murder case has been filed against 800 unnamed people taking to five the number of cased filed for chaos created at Gabtoli that killed a transport worker during recent countrywide wildcat transport strike.

Darussalam police station sub-inspector Alis Mahmud filed the case with the police station on March 2 alleging that certain quarters tried to disturb law and order during the strike and SI Travel worker (helper) Shahinur, 30, was shot during the chaos on March 1.

Without mentioning who opened fire near Allaher Dan restaurant, Alis said that Shahinur later succumbed to the injury at Dhaka Medical College Hospital.

Investigation officer of the case sub-inspector Mujibur Rahman said that none was arrested so far in this connection.

The victim was initially identified as Baishakhi Paribahan bus driver Shah Alam but he was identified on Thursday as Shahinur, 30.

Shahinur’s employer Muhammad Iqbal, who identified the body, said that the victim was not involved in any demonstration rather he was coming back to his workplace after having snacks at Allaher Dan restaurant.

Asked why people were prosecuted for killing worker since gunshots were fired reportedly by police only, Dhaka Metropolitan Police deputy commissioner Masud Ahmed said it was not clear whether the victim was shot dead by police.

‘Many transport leaders told us that an army brigadier [general] opened fire [being obstructed on the strike hours in Gabtali]. Post mortem examination will confirm it and we will investigate how the worker was shot dead,’ said

Masud.

Forensic experts at Dhaka Medical College said that slain transport worker was shot from close distance hurting his lung and heart.

With the murder case, police so far filed five cases against several hundred unnamed people.

Darussalam police sub-inspector Bishwajit Pal filed the first case on March 1 against 46 named and 1,200 unnamed people for

violence at Gabtoli on February 28.

Sub-inspector Muhammad Jubair filed the second case on March 1 under the Special Powers Act while one Ferdowshi filed the third case.

The fourth case was filed by sub-inspector Masud Miah, accusing several hundred unnamed people of assaulting cops on March 1.

Police officials so far claimed that they arrested seven people in the first three cases.

More about: