None
Case filed over Ctg JCD leader murder
Police on Friday night filed a murder case over the death of Nurul Alam Nuru, an assistant general secretary of Jatiyatabadi Chhatra Dal, a student wing of Bangladesh Nationalist Party.

Police on Thursday noon recovered the bullet-hit body of the JCD leader from Raojan upazila, few hours after he was allegedly picked up by a team of law enforcers.

Family members and Bangladesh Nationalist Party leaders claimed that police picked Nurul Alam Nuru from his residence located at Chittagong city’s Chandanpura area on early Thursday but police denied the allegation.

Raojan police officer-in-charge Md Kefayet Ullah said sub-inspector of the police station, Kamal Hossain, filed the case as none of the deceased’s family members came to the police station to lodge a case in this connection.

He said several unidentified people were accused in the case.

Police could not arrest anyone involved with the killing, said the OC.

Meanwhile, police on Saturday noon charged batons on a procession brought out by Chittagong city unit of JCD in the city’s SS Khaled Road area.

The procession was brought in support of half-day hartal for Sunday which the JCD leaders called on Thursday night protesting at the murder of Nuru.

Sources said over a hundred activists and leaders of JCD brought out a procession in front of Ladies Club of SS Khaled Road. Police resisted the procession while it reached at Kazir Dewri area, triggered a scuffle between the two sides. At one stage, police dispersed the procession charging batons.

JCD Chittagong city unit president Gazi Md Siraz Ullah claimed that at least 8 leaders and activists received injuries for the baton charge.

He said they called the half-day hartal in Chittagong, Cox’s Bazar and three hill districts for Sunday from 6:00am to 12:00pm.

Kotwali police officer-in-charge Jasim Uddin said the JCD men made provocative slogans from the procession which compelled the on-duty policemen to charge baton.

He said no one was arrested from the procession.

More about: