None
Crimes against women, children on the rise
Khadiza Akhter Nargis. — Focusbangla file photo

Violence against women and children, acid attack and car lifting are on the rise.

A police headquarters release issued on October 27 said that violence against women and children, acid attack, and vehicle lifting increased in July-September quarter compared to April-June quarter of 2016.

According to the police headquarters statistics, 1,612 cases of repression against women and children were reported across the country in every month during July-September.

Acid Survivors Foundation reported that 19 people sustained acid attacks in July-September while the number was 12 in April-June and 11 January-March.

The statistics were detailed in the third quarterly crime conference in the police headquarters on October 27 to find out the way to curb the crimes.

At the conference, inspector general of police, AKM Shahidul Hoque asked senior police officials to personally supervise the crimes against women and children, said police headquarters additional deputy inspector general Zahirul Islam Bhuiyan, who analysed 46,350 cases filed with police stations across the country in July-September.

Shahidul also asked the district police chiefs to intensify surveillance to curb

crimes, such as, killing of minors, abductions and rapes.

According to the statistics, 485 incidents of theft and 300 murders were reported across the country in every month in July-September.

Dhaka University sociology teacher Abul Kashem Mohammad Jamal Uddin told New Age that the religious preachers should play role in curbing the crimes against women and children as they can reach much people than others.

According to Bangladesh National Woman Lawyers Association, 2,481 cases of violence against women – 824 assaults, 459 domestic violence, 434 trafficking, abduction or missing, 251 sexual harassment and 240 rapes – were reported from January to July 2016.

According to rights organisation Ain O Salish Kendra, at least 75 girls, women and protesters died in attacks by stalkers while at least 90 girls and women committed suicide because of stalking in the past five years until mid-September.

Worst situation in terms of repression against women and children and other crimes was reported in Dhaka police range, according to the police.

Crimes against women and children were on the rise as a schoolgirl was killed in Gazipur on October 25 and another was stabbed in Jhenaidah on October 24.

Worst incident went viral on social media when Sylhet Government Women’s College student Khadiza Akhter Nargis, 23, was hacked by ruling Awami League-backed Bangladesh Chhatra League leader Badrul Alam, also a fourth-year economics student at Shahjalal University of Science and Technology, in Sylhet on October 3 over refusal of proposal of affairs.

A number of district superintendents of police told New Age that stalking, dowry and drug abuse were the major reasons behind the crimes against women.

‘Actually, we had been focusing on extremism in recent months…Now, we are asked to pay more attention to crimes against women including dowry, rapes and acid attacks,’ said a police superintendent stationed near Dhaka.