2008-09-02 00:00:00+06:00
Ex-ambassador Nazim charged with Tk 13 lakh embezzlement
The Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC) yesterday pressed charges against former Bangladesh ambassador in Abu Dhabi Nazimullah Chowdhury in a case filed against him on charges of causing a loss of Tk 13.47 lakh to the state exchequer through misuse of power and deception.

ACC Deputy Director Abdullah Al Zahid, also the investigation officer (IO) of the case, submitted the charge sheet to the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate's Court, Dhaka, showing 30 people as prosecution witnesses.

The IO prayed for issuance of arrest warrant against Nazimullah and the court order to attach his properties, as he has been absconding since filing of the case.

In the charge sheet, the IO mentioned that Nazimullah had caused a loss of Tk 13,47,120 to the state exchequer through misuse of power and deception.

The charge sheet was prepared under sections 409 of the Penal Code and 5 (2) of the Corruption Prevention Act, 1947.

On May 14 this year, ACC Deputy Director Abdullah Al Zahid filed the case with Shahbagh Police Station.

The complainant accused Nazimullah of irregularities in renting the ambassador's house, corruption in purchasing furniture for the abode and appointing gardeners.

“Irregularities and corruption by Nazimullah caused a loss of Tk 21 lakh to the state exchequer,” the complainant said, adding that the ambassador on different occasions purchased different items for personal use in Abu Dhabi drawing money from government funds through illegal means.

It was also mentioned in the FIR that Nazimullah shifted his residence in Abu Dhabi through misuse of power for his own benefit, causing loss to the state exchequer. He also appointed two gardeners at his residence resorting to corruption and irregularities.

The ACC on Sunday filed a graft case against the former ambassador on charges of embezzling Tk 65 lakh of government funds.

In the FIR, it was mentioned that Nazimullah was supposed to retire on February 9, 2003. But he remained in service for two more years until February 2005, giving false information and tampering with his SSC certificate.