2009-10-23 23:00:00+07:00
ACC files cases against 10 for embezzling Tk 7cr from bank
The Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC) on Thursday night filed eight cases against 10 people including four bank officials for embezzling over Tk 7 crore through fake documents.

All the accused are now at large.

ACC Assistant Director Md Shamsul Alam filed the cases with the Sylhet Kotwali Police Station.

The accused are former manager of Sylhet branch of Bangladesh Commerce Bank Limited Syed Mahmud Hossain (suspended), former assistant officers Golam Mostafa and Abul Quashem Khan, Abdul Alim Syed Motahar Hossain alias Reza Ahmed of Kazitola, MA Muhaimin Khan Hanif of Fazilchist area, Ashiqur Razzaque Chowdhury of Subidbazar, MAK Azad Babul of village Lakshmiprasad of Zaintapur upazila, Kaiser Ahmed of Shibganj-Senpara, Sohel Ahmed Sohel of Kazitola and Shah Alam of KhozarKhola area.

Sources said Reza Ahmed, owner of three business firms in Sylhet, and MA Muhaimen took Tk 12 lakh in loan from the bank in 2002.

But the amount rose to Tk 22.91 lakh as they did not pay any interest.

The bankers and two loanees were made accused in the case.

Muhaimen also took another loan of Tk 1.47 crore from the bank within a year through fake documents.

Muhaimen and three bank officials have been made accused in the case.

Ashiqur took a loan of Tk 1.31 crore from the bank through fake documents for which he and three bank officials have been made accused in the case.

AK Azad managed a loan amounting to Tk 2.32 lakh from the bank in connivance with three bank officials while one AK Azad Babul took Tk 26.32 lakh in loan through fake papers and documents.

A case has started against Babul and three bank officials in this regard.

Another client Kaiser Ahmed took Tk 2.95 crore in loan from the bank in 2002 in connivance with three bank officials.

The four had been made accused for illegal deal through fake papers.

Naimul Alam had drawn Tk 22 lakh in loan same year for which three bankers and Alam had been made accused for cheating.

Client Shah Alam took Tk 21 lakh in loan from the same bank.

He along with his partner Muhaimen and three bankers has been made accused in the case.

Sohel Ahmed took Tk 48.16 lakh from the bank in loan through forged documents.

ACC officials themselves would investigate the cases, police said.