2016-04-28 00:00:00+06:00
ACC sues 32 for embezzling govt funds in Kushtia
The Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC) office in Kushtia has filed 17 cases against 32 people, including four government officials, for embezzling Tk 2.8 crore of government funds sanctioned for land acquisition for Bheramara-Khulna Gas Transmission Project (BKGTP) in 2013.

The accused government officials are Khondokar Azim Ahmed, the then additional deputy commissioner (ADC-revenue) of Kushtia, now deputy director of local government office in Magura; Mokhlesur Rahman, then assistant commissioner, now assistant commissioner at Rajshahi Deputy Commissioner's (DC) office; Abul Kalam, then assistant commissioner, now assistant commissioner at Munshiganj DC office; Rezaul Karim, a kanungo, now working in Jessore; and Robiul Islam, surveyor at Kushtia DC office. Robiul is now suspended.

The other accused are land owners.

Abdul Gaffar, deputy director of Anti-Corruption Integrated Office, Kushtia, filed the case with Kushtia Model Police Station on Tuesday night.

According to the case statement, the accused misappropriated the money during acquisition of 3.393 acres of land at Alampur and Bottail areas.

The statement said the government sanctioned Tk 2.8 crore for acquisition of 6.865 acres of land in the areas to build the BKGTP pipeline. Kushtia district administration was given the responsibility for acquiring the land. The then administration formed a committee with the said government officials, headed by Azim Ahmed.

According to the statement, though 3.393 acres out of 6.865 acres was cultivable land, the government officials recorded it as homesteads and over-valued it. Thus, they embezzled Tk 2.8 crore.

A total of 27 land owners were also accused in the case as they joined hands with the government officials.

After investigation, ACC officials filed 17 cases under CrPC 406, 420, 409, and 109.

Contacted, Md Sahabuddin, officer-in-charge of Kushtia Model Police Station, said they would take steps as per the law.

This correspondent tried to contact Azim Ahmed, but he did not reply.

Implementation of the 167 km Bheramara-Khulna gas line project started in 2007 and was scheduled to be completed in 2010 at a cost of Tk 903 crore.

As per government plan, the state-owned oil-gas and mineral corporation Petrobangla assigned its subordinate body Gas Transmission Company of Bangladesh (GTCL) to implement the Hatikumrul-Bheramara project, but the project has been shelved.