2017-02-08 00:00:00+06:00
ACC arrests businessman over embezzling Tk 9.34cr of bank
A tax officer of the city corporation was caught red-handed by the Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC) yesterday when he was receiving bribe at his office in Bahaddarhat area of the city, reports our staff correspondent in Ctg.

The arrestee, Ali Akbar, 55, is a deputy taxation officer under taxation circle 2 of the Chittagong City Corporation (CCC).

Mosharraf Hossain Mridha, a deputy director of the ACC, said their officials arrested the CCC officer while he was taking bribe from Jamal Uddin from Rupali Residential area of Chandgaon.

Three days back, Jamal filed a complaint with the ACC, saying that Ali Akbar of the CCC had demanded bribe from him for settling the assessment of holding tax along with the change of ownership of a house.

After negotiations, Ali lowered his initial demand of Tk 40,000 to Tk 20,000 for the task, the ACC official said.

The ACC officials succeeded to entrap Ali Akbar yesterday around 11:50am at his office, the ACC official said, adding that a case was filed with Chandgaon Police Station in this connection.

Ali Akbar, however, denied the allegation and claimed that the whole incident was part of a conspiracy against him.

“The ACC officials did not find any money [bribe] from me and I only have Tk 324 on me,” he claimed while speaking with reporters.

Meanwhile, our staff correspondent in Dhaka reports that the ACC yesterday arrested Sirajul Islam Mir, director of Mir Enterprise, for misappropriating about Tk 9.34 crore of Janata Bank.

According to case document, Mir Enterprise opened 24 back-to-back Letters of Credit (LC) for Chowdhury Towel Industries Ltd and Chowdhury Knitwear, but the firm did not import or export any goods against the LCs.

Sirajul, in collaboration with officials of the bank's Ramna corporate branch, produced fake documents to embezzle Tk 9,34,84,537 from the bank, said sources at the ACC. Sirajul was arrested from Dhanmondi in connection with the case filed with Paltan Model Police Station on February 6, 2015.