2008-07-01 00:00:00+06:00
81pc girls fall victim to eve teasing: Study
The issue of eve teasing should be addressed seriously as it affects not only a girl personally but also leads to social violence, increase the rate of girls' dropout from schools and colleges and threatens women empowerment, speakers at a workshop said yesterday.

They also stressed the need for raising awareness to put an end to eve teasing.

Bangladesh National Women Lawyers' Association (BNWLA) organised the dissemination workshop titled 'Eve teasing: The Social Menace' at Cirdap auditorium following a study conducted on 1000 girls and women in Dhaka, Chittagong, Sylhet, Rajshahi, Khulna and Cox's Bazar.

While presenting the research findings, Nazmun Zaman of BNWLA said that from 2006 to June 2008, a total of 12 girls committed suicide and eve teasing worked as a factor either directly or indirectly behind the incidents.

As many as 81.3 percent respondents throughout the country said that they have been teased at one point of their lives. The percentage is high among age group 10-18, according to the study.

Some 87 percent girl of age group 10-18 said that they have been teased which is 82.5 percent among the age group 18-30.

Some 74.1 percent respondents said that the delinquent teenage boys, local hoodlums, even rickshaw pullers, bus drivers, street vendors, traffic police and often bosses or supervisors or colleagues of the working women tease them by uttering indecent comments.

Eve teasing also takes place in the form of singing songs, staring lustfully, whistling, pinching, chasing, doing vulgar movement and teasing through cell phones also.

Disrespect towards women, unemployment, sky culture, women's lack of courage, negative role of police, political influence and corporate culture were also identified as causes behind eve teasing.

Justice Mohammad Tafazzul Islam, BNWLA Executive Director Salma Ali, Principal of Viqarunnisa Noon School and College Rokeya Begum and Principal of Azimpur Girls' School and College Hosne Ara Begum were present.