2016-05-16 23:48:00+06:00
DNA test finds rape evidence
Unlike the report of the first autopsy conducted on the body of Sohagi Jahan Tonu, the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has found rape evidence on the body of the Comilla Victoria College student in its DNA test, says news agency UNB.



"We've found profile three men’s semen in the dresses and underwear of Tonu in the DNA test conducted at the CID Dhaka laboratory," special police super of Cimilla CID Nazmul Karim Khan told UNB over phone on Monday night.

He said they matched the blood found on the dresses and underwear of Tonu with her teeth to get sure that the clothes belonged to the college girl.





"We've almost reached the final stage to identify the killers," said the CID official.





Responding to a question whether they have been able to match the DNA test with the suspects, Nazmul Karim said, "Through collecting various information, mobile phone SMS and interrogation of a good number of people, we're now at the stage to arrest the accused."





Earlier, physicians at the Forensic Department of Comilla Medical College Hospital in their first autopsy report did not find any sign of rape before the death of the college girl.





"We didn't find any sign of rape and it's not even clear how she was killed," Kamoda Prosad Saha, a professor of Forensic Department of the hospital, told reporters on 4 April.





On 28 March, a local court ordered the exhumation of Tonu's body for fresh autopsy.





The court order follows 'discrepancies' in the investigation agencies' primary findings and what has been gleaned from her original autopsy.





A fresh post-mortem was conducted on the body of the college girl at the Comilla Medical College Hospital on 30 March after the body was exhumed on the day.





Members of Crime Scene Unit of CID brought the DNA and other samples of teeth, nails and body to Dhaka for examination.





Physician Prosad conducted the second autopsy along with Omar Faruk and Sharmin Sultana of the hospital.

Meanwhile, the medical team, which conducted the autopsy on the body of Tonu, sought reports of the DNA test and fingerprint of her clothes, teeth and nails from Criminal Investigation Department (CID).





Physician KP Saha, head of the team, sent a letter to CID Inspector Gazi M Ibraim, also the Investigative Officer of the case, on Sunday.





A copy of the letter was also sent to the Senior Judicial Magistrate Court of Comilla.





Sohagi Jahan Tonu, second year student of History Department of Comilla Victoria College and member of Victoria College Theatre, was found dead in a bush beside a culvert inside the Comilla Cantonment area on 20 March.

Read more:



Tonu’s body exhumed for fresh autopsy



No rape sign in Tonu’s first autopsy