2014-07-21 20:57:00+06:00
RMG worker gang-rape 'staged drama'
Police have described as staged drama the recent gang-rape of a garment worker in a moving microbus in the city's Mirpur area.

The claim was made in a report submitted to the High Court as affidavit on Monday.

Meanwhile, an HC division bench comprising Justice Farah Mahbub and Justice Kazi Ejarul Haque Akondo exempted the Dhaka Metropolitan Police Mirpur zone deputy commissioner, Mirpur police in-charge and the Dhaka Medical College Hospital in-charge at one-stop crisis centre (OCC) from their personal appearance.

Following a writ petition filed by Children Charity Bangladesh Foundation (CCBF), the High Court on July 9 summoned the three officials to appear before it on July 15 to explain their failure to hunt down the perpetrators who raped the garment worker.

In compliance with the HC order, the trio turned up on July 15 when they verbally told the court that the incident was staged drama.

However, the court asked them to submit their depositions in written as affidavit.

Deputy attorney general Amatul Karim on Monday said the drama of the gang-rape was staged to frame others.

She also said a case was filed against sub-inspector Parul Akhter of Tejgaon Victim Support Centre with Adabar Police Station for providing false information for lodging the rape case.

After the day's proceedings, the court fixed September 14 for next hearing in this regard.

In addition to interim orders, the HC on July 9 had also issued a rule asking the respondents to explain in two weeks why directions should not be given to frame guidelines to ensuring the security of women on the streets and set up electronic devices at different places around the city to nab offenders.

The Home Secretary and the Inspector General of Police, among others, were made respondents to the rule.

A garment worker, aged about 19, was gang-raped in a moving microbus in the city's Darus Salam area after being forcibly picked up on the night of July 1.