2014-07-12 12:09:00+06:00
Rape on the rise, insecurity growing
The police have failed to arrest anyone in connection with the incident of a security guard being killed and a girl being kidnapped and raped in Uttara. The girl's family lives in a state of fear. Over the last one month, the media has been reporting one rape case after the other in the city, but virtually no progress has been made in the investigations of these cases. In Mirpur, three of the accused in an incident were released on bail within 20 days of arrest.

Several reliable persons of an institution dealing with legal aid for women, tell Prothom Alo that very few rape cases ever actually come to light. The victims and their families are unwilling to speak due to the lack of trial and justice in these cases. The effect of such incidents, particularly on the girl child victims, is too horrendous for words.

On December 16, 2012 when a girl student was raped in a moving bus in Delhi, the entire India was shaken. Not long after that on January 24, 2013, a garments factory worker was raped by two of the bus staff while travelling by bus along the Dhaka-Aricha highway in Manikganj. On February 13 this year, a Manikganj court sentenced the bus driver Dipu Miah and helper Kasem Ali to life imprisonment. However, such incidents are occurring frequently in recent times, yet the matter of women's safety is not being highlighted. The government speaks about women's empowerment, but the ground reality remains that women are unsafe within and outside of their homes.

According to the human rights organisation Ain O Salish Kendra, in the year 2013 a total number of 812 women were victims of rape and gang rape in the country. Of these, 87 were killed after rape and 14 committed suicide. Again, from January to June this year, 309 rapes took place around the country. Of this, 98 gang rapes took place and 29 were murdered after rape. Seven committed suicide. There were 44 cases of attempted rape.

According to data of Dhaka Medical College Hospital's One-Stop Crisis Centre (OCC), a majority of the incidents related to abuse of women are sexual abuse cases. The victims are usually 18 to 19-year-old girls. In the last one month, 17 women came to OCC for assistance. In the month before that 22 women came to OCC and in one week of April, 10 women came to OCC after facing sexual abuse.

Bilquis Begum, Coordinator of OCC, tells Prothom Alo that OCC data cannot give an accurate picture of sexual abuse of women in and around Dhaka. In most cases the women get examined in the forensic department and go to court, they do not come to the OCC. The number of victims is increasing, but it is being reported less.

Salma Ali, Executive Director of Bangladesh Women Lawyers Association, tells Prothom Alo, most of the rape cases are hushed up. The situation in the urban slums is particularly bad. The rapists influence the political leaders and police and are let off scot-free. And because there is no assurance that they will be tried and punished, the rape victims and their families are unwilling to resort to the law in fear of their personal safety and social harassment. The Delhi incident has, however, created awareness in this regard and more such incidents are being reported.

It is with the help of the people and their coming forward as witnesses that due punishment of the accused persons in the Manikganj incident has been ensured. It is time to sit up and take notice once again.