2014-11-25 13:52:00+06:00
Rape, violence on rise
The number of rapes in the country is on the rise. Alongside rape, violence has also increased. Rapes are being recorded on cells phones and the women are being threatened with exposure of the scenes on Internet. Then again, often the raped women or girl is being forced to marry the one by whom she was raped. The law enforcement agencies even assist in this at times.

According to Bangladesh Mahila Parishad records, 544 incidents of rape took place from January to October this year in the country. Of this, 150 were incidents of gang rape. And 78 were killed after rape. There were 93 incidents of attempted rape.

According to the Bangladesh Jatiya Mahila Ainjibi Samity, in the five years from 2010 till October this year, there were 3092 incidents of rape.

Incidentally, today is the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women.

Marriage to the rapist: Women and girls who have been raped are often married off to the person who raped them, based on social compulsions, religious interpretations and other pretexts. Such a marriage took place in May this year in Joraganj thana of Mirserai, Chittagong. According to media reports, Joraganj police sub-inspector (SI) Najmul Hasan apprehended the rapist and his associates. He even took a bribe of Tk 100 thousand from them. Later he got the rapist married to the rape victim with a kabin (marriage contract) of Tk 300 thousand.

SI Najmul Hasan told Prothom Alo over phone, "The girl had ran away from home to marry the boy, but the boy told her he won't marry her. Instead he tried to rape her. The girl came to the police station and said she wanted to marry the boy. The girl's father too submitted a written application to the police station saying that instead of filing a case, the boy and girl should be married. The marriage was arranged in consideration of social norms. The allegations of a Tk100 thousand bribe are false. That money was spent on the wedding."

In September a rape victim was married off to her assailant. The woman told Prothom Alo, "Frankly speaking, I am not happy. I just married for social acceptance and to expose this man before everyone. I was aware that he has two other wives."

Rural arbitration: In the villages, rape cases are being dealt with by rural arbitration of salish. In Kumarkhali upazila of Kushtia, a housewife went to the doctor Rafiquzzaman for treatment. He rendered her unconscious and raped her. The police was informed of the matter, but no action was taken. Later at the salish, the woman was beaten and made to say that the rape incident didn't take place. She later committed suicide.

When Shahjahan of Chhoishuti union, Kaliachar upazila, Kishoreganj admitted at the village salish that he raped a 12-year-old child, Fazlul Huq, former president of Chhoishuti union Awami League, sentenced him to being beaten with a shoe.

Increase of violence and horror: Alongside rape, the incidence of rape-related horrors and violence has increased too. From Prothom Alo reports over the past two years, four-year-old girls, disabled women and even a 55-year-old woman have been raped. The criminals have not just stopped at rape. They have murdered their victims and exposed them in a ghastly manner. There is even an incident of a woman being raped on a bus and then being thrown out of the speeding bus. Writer Selina Hossain told Prothom Alo that a breakdown of social values and moral degeneration has led to the increase of such incidents.

Long-winded procedures and compromise: Bilquis Begum, coordinating consultant at the Dhaka Medical College One-stop Crisis Centre, has been working at this centre for the past 10 years. She said that most of the cases simply fizzle out due to the long-winded procedures involved. Many are no longer willing to give statements. If the families are poor, they compromise in exchange of money. Again, many families simply leave the locality in fear that their daughter will never get married if is known that she was raped. Speaking from experience, Bilquis Begum said that she still has to go to court to give evidence in cases dating back to 2006 and 2008.

The father of a 12-year-old child with speaking disabilities in Gazipur, said, "We have spent about Tk 20 thousand to Tk 30 thousand for far on the case regarding my daughter's rape. The police won't budge without bribes. This took place in October. I don't know how much longer I will be able to carry on with the case."

Miscreants in Godagari upazila of Rajshahi in 2011 raped the 55-year-old widow Mariam Murmu and killed her. In 2012 the Rajshahi special tribunal for repression against women and children special condemned the three accused to death. The women's family appealed in July this year for the verdict to be carried out.

Some positive steps: The court sentenced Serajul Islam (25) to life imprisonment and Tk 100 thousand for rape of a 12-year-old girl in Rajshahi. The child herself is now a mother as a result of the rape. The court has ordered that Serajul Islam be named as the infant's father. The rape occurred in 2011 and the verdict was passed this year.

After a writ was filed, challenging the method of examining rape victims, the high court has ordered that a committee be formed to draw up regulations in this regard. Based on a report of Prothom Alo last year, the court issued a rule asking why it would not be considered unlawful and improper for a male physician to examine a woman victim of rape.

Sara Hossain, honorary executive director of BLAST, has said that along with the high court directives, the Repression Against Women and Children Act 2003 also needed to be reviewed. The law ministry and the home ministry also needed to record how many of the rape victims were actually receiving justice.