2016-10-11 16:27:00+06:00
16 women killed by husbands every month
A total of 149 women were killed by their husbands in the first nine months of this year. That means, on average, more than 16 women were killed by their husbands every month.

Another 34 were killed by members of their husband’s family, while 39 committed suicide due to family torture. Added to this is physical, mental and sexual abuse.

These statistics were revealed in the human rights quantitative report published by the human rights organisation Ain O Salish Kendra (ASK) based on reports of 12 dailies covering the period from January to September.

Acting executive director of ASK Mohammed Nur Khan told Prothom Alo that while this report was prepared on the basis of newspaper reports, there were many other incidents outside of this. There are no effective human rights organisations at the district level, so many incidents remain unreported. If all information could have been collected, the numbers would be much higher.

In 2010 the government enacted the Domestic Violence (Protection and Prevention) Act. Many non-government women and human rights organisations are also working against such violence. Even so, the sheer volume of violence against women by their husbands and in-laws is alarming, said representatives of these organisations.

Since 2004, with support from Oxfam, the campaign ‘We Can’ has been running in Bangladesh. Under this campaign, there are one million ‘change-makers’ working voluntarily in 48 districts of the country, challenging and working against such violence. When any incident of domestic violence occurs in their areas, they first try to prevent it. If they fail, they refer it to a human rights organisation. Around 50 percent of the members of this campaign are male. Many of these men at one time were oppressors themselves.

Co-chair of the ‘We Can’ campaign alliance MB Akhter told Prothom Alo, it is not enough to change the men. The women must create their own identity. The women must protest against violence.

According to a study of the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Disease Research Bangladesh (ICDDRB) on gender and men’s attitude and practice of violence against women, 89 percent of the men in villages feel that men have the right to beat their wives if they do wrong. Urban men are not far behind, with 83 percent of them agreeing to this.

The study showed that 93 percent or urban men and 98 percent of rural men believed that being a man meant being tough. Again, 50 percent of urban men and 65 percent rural men believed that women should tolerate violence for the sake of the family. This study was based on the interviews of 2400 men taken from January to June 2011.

The latest survey of Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS), ‘Violence Against Women Survey 2015’, reveals that at present 80 percent of married women have been subject to violence by their husbands in some manner or the other. Most women victims of violence (72.7 percent) never told others about the oppression by their their husbands.

MB Akhter said that despite the law, when women went to the police stations, they were mostly told to avoid legal measures and accept things for the sake of the family. Women do not avail the protection offered by the law.

Nur Khan said women initially make compromises for the sake of the family, but turn to the law when the domestic violence goes too far. However, even if they resort to the law, they invariably receive no recompense due to lengthy legal procedures.