2016-12-09 19:24:00+06:00
Men killed in 'gunfight' arrested a day ago
Two men who were killed in what the police claim a gunfight early Thursday in Keraniganj in Dhaka were arrested just a day before their killing.

The victims were Montajul, 35, and Syed Ahmed Sabuj, 34. The police claimed they were members of a robber gang.

Montajul has a grocery shop what the police claim to be a strategy to sell the booty he get through robbery.

Talking to Prothom Alo’s Keraniganj correspondent, Dhaka district police super (SP) Shah Mizan Shafiur Rahman said Montajul was the leader of the gang. He along with his accomplice Syed was carrying out robbery in Dhaka and its surrounding districts.

According to the claim of the police officer, they used to carry out robbery shortly after the Maghrib prayer time begins.

The police officer said the duo were arrested from Dhaka-Mawa connecting road area in south Keraniganj on Tuesday night and a case was filed against them under arms act the next day as well.

The police super said Montajul and Syed had revealed during the interrogation that they kept arms and looted goods at a place in Porahati area of Rohitpur BSCIC Lakhirchar in Keraniganj.

Later, he said, a team of Keraniganj police along with members of police’s Detective Branch in the small hours of Thursday conducted a drive in Porahati area along with the two arrested “robbers” to recover arms and looted goods as per their information.

Sensing the presence of law enforcers, their accomplices opened fire, forcing the police to retaliate, the SP claimed.

SP Shafiur Rahman said Montajul and Syed attempted to flee the scene during the fire of gunshots and sustained bullet injuries.

“Seriously injured Montajul and Syed were then rushed to the Salimullah Medical College and Mitford Hospital and on-duty doctors declared them dead,” said the police super.

But Keranjiganj Model Police Station officer-in-charge (OC) Ferdous Hossain said earlier on Thursday that a team of police conducted a drive in the area around 4:00am Thursday acting on a tipoff that a gang of robbers were taking preparations to commit robbery there, according to UNB news agency.

Sensing the presence of the law enforcers, the robbers opened fire at them, prompting retaliation that triggered a gunfight, the OC was quoted by UNB.

Read more:

4 people killed in separate ‘gunfights’