2015-04-13 11:52:00+06:00
BNP councillor candidates hardly seen campaigning
Most of the BNP-baked councillor candidates cannot campaign in the city elections as they face various charges and fear arrest.

Of the BNP-backed councillor candidates in the 93 general wards of Dhaka North and Dhaka South city corporations, 54 face cases of criminal charges. At least 17 of them have been charged with murder and 22 with attempted murder.

The candidates, however, claim these cases have been filed during the Awami League reign and are aimed at harassing them on political grounds.

Speaking to 15-20 of the candidates, Prothom Alo came to know that nine of them do not have bail. They said, they fear that candidates backed by the party will be arrested if they go to the court for bail. That is why many of them are not even attempting to get bail.

Some of them have tried through the party lawyers, but have not been granted bail. These candidates cannot even go to campaign. Their wives, relations and party leaders and activists are campaigning on their behalf.

Most of the cases have been filed against them during the previous term and the current term of the Awami League government. The cases have been filed under the special powers act, the speedy trial act and the explosive substance act.

The election commission says that it is up to the court whether or not these persons will be arrested.

Badiul Alam Majumdar, secretary of Sujon (Citizens for Good Governance), told Prothom Alo that other than the murder cases or cases regarding petrol bombs, all other charges should be viewed leniently. “If not, there will not be a level-playing field for the election,” he added.

21 in Dhaka North

There are criminal cases against 21 of the 36 councillor candidates in 36 wards. There are one or more murder cases against 10 of them under article 307 of the Penal Code.

Under article 302 of the Penal Code, there are direct murder cases against Abul Meser, candidate of ward no. 23, and Sheikh Amir Hossain, candidate of ward no. 35. The case against Abul Meser was filed during the last Awami League government. The case against Amir Hossain was filed in 2006 during the BNP rule. There are four murder cases against him.

Amir Hossain told Prothom Alo, "I do not have bail in several of the 17 cases against me. If I go for bail, they will reject my appeal and send me to jail, that is why I haven't appealed for bail as yet. The police are searching for me too. I cannot even go to my area."

During the Awami League government's term, 15 cases were filed against Kazi Ali Imam, councillor candidate of ward no. 3. In the two terms of Awami League and the caretaker government term before that, 47 cases were filed against Anwaruzzaman Anwar, candidate of ward no. 26. These include several murder cases. There are presently four cases against ward no 30 candidate Abul Hashem, These were filed between 1997 and 2012. The court absolved him in seven other cases.

Anwaruzzaman said, "There is no bail in 18 of the 47 cases and that is why I haven't been able to go to my area to seek votes. I will attempt to get bail. Then I will enter my area."

The other candidates facing murder charges are Mustafizur Rahman of ward no. 1, Sajjad Hossain of ward no. 2, Abdul Matin of ward no. 13, Mohammed Shahabuddin of ward no. 33, AGM Shamsul Huq of ward no. 29 (two cases), and Mahmudul Alam of ward no. 24 (three cases).

33 in Dhaka South

Of the 57 councillor candidates backed by the BNP in Dhaka South, 33 face criminals charges. At least seven of the face one or more direct murder charges.

Shamsul Huda Kajal of ward no. 7 faces one murder case. He was released from earlier murder charges in 1998. There are 16 other cases against him, including attempt to murder charges. There are 29 cases against Ariful Islam of ward no. 19, including one murder case and 11 attempt to murder cases. Ariful Islam told Prothom Alo, all the cases against him are politically motivated and he has been granted bail in all of them.

There are three cases against Khwaja Habibullah of ward no. 29, including a murder case filed in 2009. There are seven cases against Mir Ashraf Ali Azam on ward no. 26. These include a murder case (2006) and several attempt to murder cases. Mohammed Mohan of ward no. 33 faces three cases of which one is a murder case (2002). Abdus Shahed of ward no. 44 and Mohammed Faruk of ward no. 46, face one murder case each, filed in 2013 and 2009 respectively. Mir Hossain of ward no. 53, faces five cases, including one murder case (2005) and two attempted murder cases.

Mir Hossain said, these cases were filed against him over the past two years during the anti-government movement. He cannot enter his area as he has no bail. The police are searching for him. He appealed for bail through his lawyers, but was turned down.

Of the 10 charges against Golam Hossain of ward no. 4, nine are murder charges. Harunur Rashid of ward no. 10 faces 25 charges, including 15 attempted murder charges. Lokman Hossain of ward no. 13 faces 45 charges including 30 attempt to murder charges. Councillor candidate of ward no. 18 Jahangir Hossain faces four attempt to murder cases, Rafiqul of ward no. 31 faces five charges of attempted murder, Maqbul Islam Khan of ward no. 40 faces three attempted murder charges and Atiq Ullah of ward no. 48, seven charges of attempt to murder. They all face several other charges too.