2015-06-15 01:23:00+06:00
Strict Cyber Security Act on the cards
Along with the existing Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Act 2006, the government has decided to enact a cyber security law to ensure strict punishment for cyber crimes.

The law will impose a maximum 20-year sentence for 'cyber-terrorism' and arrest of the suspects without warrant.

Policemen can take any necessary action, even breaking down doors and windows to seize computers, the draft of the proposed act said.

For cyber crimes committed outside the country, the accused could be brought under the country's jurisdiction, the draft added.

If any international crime is committed online, it will be considered cyber-terrorism, according to the draft.

The draft also said that a controller carry out probes anywhere in the country if there is a threat to the internet service infrastructure.

A person guilty of cyber crime will be sentenced to maximum 14-year imprisonment or fined maximum Tk 10 million or both.

The draft of the Cyber Security Act 2015 was recently been finalised after debates were raised over the ICT Act.

The new act also recommended a National Internet (Cyber) Security Organisation in the interests of Bangladesh's sovereignty, security and integrity, friendship with foreign countries and others.

Tahmina Rahman, director of Article 19 (Bangladesh and South Asia) told Prothom Alo the draft has created fresh concerns.

Tahmina feared the act may shrink freedom of expression further online and urged a review of the draft.

The ICT ministry assigned Rajshahi University associate professor Zulfiqar Ahmed to prepare the draft.

The new law will be supplementary of the ICT Act 2006, Zulfiqar told Prothom Alo.

The draft of the Cyber Security Act 2015 has been published on the website of ICT ministry for evaluation by all quarters.

The draft suggested a minimum five-year jail for the offenders who harm the network of anyone's computer without prior permission, erase or distort data or send electronic messages with false information in a bid to cheat a person.

Several crimes in the draft have been mentioned as cyber-terrorism. Cyber-crime will warrant a maximum 20-year jail or minimum four-year imprisonment.

If a friendly nation falls faces security threat due to cyber crime, this will be considered cyber-terrorism.

If someone tries to obstruct an international organisation in conducting its activities, it will also be considered cyber-terrorism.

If anyone tries to enter the network of another person or organisation or try to infect virus in the system, it will be considered cyber-terrorism.

The draft has includes clauses to try foreigners besides individuals and organisations.

The cases under Cyber Security Act are proposed to be non-bailable.

If an organisation is found guilty, its owner, CEO, director, manager, secretary or other representative will be punished, the draft said.

According to the draft, taking photographs secretly and publishing them without permission will be considered a crime. Imprisonment of maximum 10 years has been proposed for such crimes and hacking.