2016-01-12 19:54:00+06:00
DC stops child marriage
It was a chilly evening, the clock showed 8 o' clock. The local administration came to know that a child marriage was taking place in the village. They immediately rushed to the scene and stopped the ceremony. While the mobile court issued a fine against the concerned persons, everyone present at the scene was put under oath to prevent child marriage. This incident took place at Sonapur village in Meherpur upazila.

According to the district administration office, Fatema Khatun, a student of class ten, daughter of Babar Ali of Sonapur villiage was being married to Biplob (22), son of Md. Alehim of the same village. After receiving this information, Deputy Commissioner Shafiqul Islam along with some other administrative officers went to the scene. Sensing their presence, the groom and the parents of the bride fled. However, the officers managed to catch the bride and brother of the groom, Sentu. Later the villagers brought the guardians of both the groom and the bride to the administrators. A mobile court was set up promptly and the groom’s father and brother along with the bride and her father were fined one thousand taka each.

The villagers has rushed to the scene as soon as they heard news of the local administration and mobile court arriving at the wedding ceremony. The Deputy Commissioner made all present take an oath stating that the villagers would not support any child marriage and would take measures to prevent such acts. If they failed to stop child marriage they should inform the local administration.

Other officers at the scene were Additional Deputy Commissioner (general) Khairul Hasan, Assistant Commissioner (land) Shahiduzzaman, Nejarot Deputy Collector and Executive Magistrate Nur-e-Alam and Sub Inspector of Police (SI) Mahedi Hasan.

The Executive Magistrate of the mobile court Nur-e-Alam later said that the guardians of the groom and bride promised that the girl would not be married until she reached the proper age approved by law and in the meantime she would continue her studies.

Deputy Commissioner Shafiqul Islam told Prothom Alo via telephone that wherever there is child marriage, there will be protest. Child marriage will be eliminated from the district and to ensure that the Deputy Commissioner urged the local leaders and villagers to work together and raise awareness against this. He also said that the administration will take severe action if there is anymore child marriage.

The family of the groom and the bride refused to comment.