2014-12-20 14:31:00+06:00
Bonanza anomaly at Sher-e-Bangla agri university
The University Grants Commission (UGC) has formed a probe committee to investigate allegations of irregularities in the recruitment process of Sher-e-Bangla Agricultural University.

The university recently appointed 29 teachers against nine posts while 24 officers were recruited against two posts and 22 employees against seven posts. It is alleged vice chancellor (VC) Shadat Ulla is running the institution at his will, without caring the least for the rules.

The VC has several accusations against him, including recruitment business, embezzlement of money in the name of different programmes of the university, appointing relatives breaching the law, and using many university vehicles.

On 5 June, the UGC approved a university proposal of the university to appoint teachers, officers, and employees to 30 vacant posts of the institution.

However, a total of 75 teachers, officers, and employees were appointed against 18 vacant posts under these three categories.

As a result, many of the officials and employees do not have workstations and they spend the day roaming on the campus.

When asked about this, the VC said the advertisement allowed for flexible recruitment numbers and the budget could accommodate the newly recruited staff.

When he was reminded that many qualified candidates were dropped during the recruitment process, the VC said it happens in all the universities.

As many as 24 people, including 10 former and present leaders of Bangladesh Chhatra League (BCL), were recruited for the post of two section officers.

The VC said no rules were broken in appointing the BCL men.

Recruiting relatives

Shadat Ulla appointed his brother-in-law as the examination controller, but the latter does not have the experience required for the post.

The VC also appointed the wife of his brother-in-law as assistant director, his nephew a section officer position and another relative as an MLSS.

He is also trying to appoint his son as a faculty in the last few days of his tenure.

Asked about recruiting his relatives, Shadat said they are good amply qualified for their the posts.

Spending millions on refreshments

The university accounts department said the VC has spent a total of Tk 28.3 million to the date on refreshments for guests and other expenses till now.

He has withdrawn Tk 1.33 lakh for Eid-ul-Azha celebration in 2013, Tk 1.33 lakh in the name of inviting teachers, Tk 1.33 lakh for Pahela Baishakh and Tk 1.61 lakh for Eid-ul-Azha this year, the sources said.

Asked about the expenditures, the VC said many came to visit him on different occasions. 'I know how many people came to my place. How would others know?' he posed a questioned.

Irregularities regarding university vehicles

Currently, VC Shadat Ulla is using three vehicles — a white Pajero for himself and two cars for his wife and brother-in-law.

Asked about the vehicles, Shadat said he is provided two vehicles as the VC.

"The third one was used by the previous VC. It's out of order but I am using it as a project director," he said.

Asked about the irregularities of the VC, UGC investigation committee member Prof Mohammad Mohabbat Khan told Prothom Alo, "We have recieved a number of complaints against the present VC. We will submit our report after investigation."