2015-12-01 16:21:00+06:00
Crusader against child marriage
Farida Yasmin, the headmaster of Gendukuri Government Primary School at Hatibandha upazila, has been nominated for the Champion Award by Plan International for her role in eliminating child marriage in Lalmonirhat district.



The district was declared free from child marriage at a ceremony organised by the district administration with Farida as a guest. The speakers spoke highly on her role against gender discrimination at the programme.



Farida, a resident of Masterpara of Hatibandha upazila headquarters, was married off to Rafiqul Islam in 1981 when she was still a college student. Their three sons are studying at post-graduation level.



Farida felt the hardship of early marriage at her in-laws’ home, which made her determined to work against child marriage to save the potentialities and dreams of girl children.



She joined the Gendukuri Primary School in 1985 as an assistant teacher and was promoted to the post of headmaster in 2006. Meanwhile, Farida graduated in 1999 at the inspiration of her husband. She also studied law.



In 2012, she was made joint secretary of ‘Anchol’, the 25-member association of female teachers of the local primary schools. She is also the vice-president of Hatibandha unit of Civil Society Organisation, an affiliate of Plan International Bangladesh and Rupantor.



Farida received training on child safety, gender issues, advocacy and others. She hurries to the scene to interfere whenever she comes to know of any incidents of child marriage. She takes help of the administration or the police if she fails to persuade the parents to stop a child marriage.



Farida Yasmin said, “My first success against child marriage was in June, 2013, when I stopped marriage of a Class VI girl, and the latest one was in September this year when I stopped marrying off a Class VII student, totalling the number of my success at 61.”



The Directorate of Women and Children Affairs honoured her with an award in 2013 in recognition of her role against child marriage.



Lalmonirhat deputy commissioner Habibur Rahman and police superintendent TM Mojahidul Islam said Farida Yasmin is the only teacher in the district who inform them incidents of child marriage, consult the issue and take administrative help to stop child marriage.



