2015-05-05 10:30:00+06:00
Devious means of child marriage
When it comes to child marriage in Bangladesh, it is ironic that the protectors become the perpetrators. The local government representatives, lawyers, the kazis or marriage registrars and others concerned, are more keen to avoid the law against child marriage than to enforce it. This was evident in 10 districts of the country where child-marriage is most prevalent. Bangladesh ranks second in the world regarding child marriage.

The mobile courts have done nothing to curb child marriage. These courts do not even come to know about most incidents of child marriage. At time, the mobile courts arrive on the scene, stops the marriage, fines the people concerned and that's it.

However, within a few days the child is married off elsewhere, without the knowledge of the mobile courts.

According to a government report, about 64% of the children in the country are given in marriage before they reach 18 years of age, especially in the North Bengal region.

The 10 districts most prone to child marriage are Bogra, Joypurhat, Naogaon, Natore, Kurigram, Gaibandha, Panchgar, Jamalpur, Kushtia and Khulna, according to a report from UNICEF and Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics in 2014.

Tariqul Islam, secretary to the ministry of women and children affairs, said the government was working on the issue in collaboration with certain NGOs.

Activists working against child marriage observe that this type of marriage is generally common among those who do not have birth certificates.

It is a common perception that the older the girl is, the more dowry would have to be paid for her. And so the families get fake birth certificates from the local government to give their daughters in marriage. In such cases, the kazis and the lawyers can do nothing to restrict the marriage, even if they suspect the girl is under-age.

Sometimes, the families even go to the notary public offices for certificates and so that their children can start living in wedlock. Later, at a convenient time, they register the marriage with the kazi.

Kazi Shabbir, president of the Bangladesh marriage registrars forum, said the child marriage could be cut down by 80% if the local union parishad and the notary public offices stopped issuing fake certificates.