2015-07-14 08:11:00+06:00
People are enraged, shocked
The entire nation is stunned and enraged at the manner in which the 13-year-old child, Sheikh Mohammed Samiul Alam (Rajan) was cruelly beaten to death. The YouTube administrators have removed the video. Many allege that the police didn't pay much attention to the case as Samiul was poor.

There has been an outpour of anger in the social media. Many have expressed their shame. Bangladesh's test cricket team captain Mushfiqur Rahman lodged his protest on facebook, with the slogan, "Say NO to child abuse."

The local people managed to catch one of the criminals while they were trying to get rid of the body. The others took flight. The main accused Kamrul Islam fled to Saudi Arabia, but was caught yesterday in Jeddah. Bangladesh's ambassador in Jeddah Golam Moshi informed Prothom Alo of the matter.

Immediately after this incident on 8 July. one of the killers Muhit Alam was caught by local police when he was trying to dispose of the body. He was handed over the the police. The court has placed him on five days' remand. The police have arrested a close relative of Muhit, Ismail Hossain, to find the other absconding men. Muhit's wife was arrested last night. A five-member committee has been formed to supervise the police investigation of this case.

The police have filed a case against Muhit, a businessman of Sheikhpara in Kumargaon, Sylhet, and his brother Kamrul Islam (25) who has returned from Saudi Arabia, Haider Ali alias Ali (34) and the guard Moyna alias Boro Moyna (45). The autopsy reported said there were 68 signs of injury on Samiul's body. He died of brain haemorrhage.

The child Samiul, accused of theft, was tied to a pole of a bus stand and tortured by five or six men. He begged to be saved, but to no avail. He even begged for water, but they told him to drink their sweat.

Prothom Alo and other newspapers published reports on the incident on 12 July. Protests were voiced in Dhaka, Sylhet and other places around the country. Child rights and human rights organisations held programmes.

State minister for home affairs Asaduzzaman Khan Kamal yesterday said that no one would be let off the hook in this incident. Chairman of the national human rights commission Mizanur Rahman instructed the Sylhet police commissioner to investigate the incident and submit a report.

Samiul was the older to two brothers and would sell vegetables. His father Sheikh Mohammed Azizur Rahman was a rental microbus driver. His mother Lubna Akhter was a housewife. A visit to their house yesterday found the mother Lubna holding her son's poster, delirious with grief. She cried out, "I want those who killed my son to be killed in the same way, only then will be have some consolation."

Reflection of a degenerating society: Social scientists of the country see this as the consequence of detrimental changes in social behavioural patterns, disintegrating traditions and a breakdown of normal relations.

Other says that the culture of lawlessness and absence of the rule of law has made people barbaric. With laws to protect killer and obstructions to the trial of killers, such incidents are occurring all over the country.

Social scientist and Dhaka University's emeritus professor Najma Chowdhury told Prothom Alo, a sort of anarchy prevails in all levels of the state. Family lessons, traditions are not being followed. Politics is restive. People lack conscience. It will not be easy to overcome this condition. But if the matter is addressed properly, it will be possible to emerge from the situation. This incident cannot be viewed as an isolated incident, she said.