2015-07-06 05:30:00+06:00
Two-thirds parents, guardians punish kids physically
Two-thirds of the parents and guardians discipline their children, ranging from one to 14 years old, through physically abuse, and 74.4% of the children are subject to mental pressure to teach them good behaviour. This has both a short and long-term impact on them.

This picture of child abuse in Bangladesh was revealed in a Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) 2012-13, conducted by the government-run Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS) and financed by the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF).

A publication in this regard, Pragatir Pathey, was launched on Sunday at the capital's Bangabandhu International Conference Centre.

According to the BBS, the disciplinary measures entail making children study, eat on time and following the guardians' orders.

The survey finds one mother in every three believes punishing children physically is necessary to teach them manners.

The survey report, however, says such punishment impedes development of children, their learning ability and schooling performance.

The survey was conducted in 64 districts of Bangladesh between December 2012 and April 2013 and the data collected from 51,895 households.

Prevalence of child marriage was also found to be high in the survey results with about 52.3% of women of 20-24 age group having got married before the age of 18 years, and 18.1% getting married before 15 years.

According to the survey, every three families out of five arrange at least two kinds of toys for the children while one of every seven children starts pre-primary education by the age of three to five.

Women’s consciousness of getting information from internet, newspaper, radio, television has also been covered by the survey.

As many as 52% women listen to radio, read the newspaper, and watch television, while 50.1% only view television for information.

Only 13.9% women of poor families read newspapers, watch TV and listen to the radio, while 91.3% women of wealthy families have these privileges.

The survey also shows, overall 42% under-5 children had stunted growth in the country.

Stunted growth is higher in eastern districts with Netrokona having the highest rate of children with stunted growth and Meherpur having the lowest rate, said the report.

On the other hand, mothers from the poorest households get services of skilled health personnel in only 26% cases.

Seventy-seven percent of the population of country use improved sanitation facilities and only about four percent defecate in the open, it added.

Planning minister AHM Mustafa Kamal, who addressed the programme as chief guest, said, “There is no alternative to prioritise education if we want to do better in social indicators.”

“Now, our aim is to lift Bangladesh to higher-middle income country from its present state of lower-middle income status. And, the ultimate target is to become higher income country by 2041,” the minister said.

"Everyone will complete primary education by 2025. Educated people will work on farmlands. Farmers, auto-rickshaw drivers all will speak in English," He added.

UNICEF representative Edouard Beigbeder said, “Bangladesh, in last few years, played a remarkable role in the development of children.”