2015-08-17 01:50:00+06:00
Children neglected even by ministry
The ministry of woman and children affairs deals more with women’s affairs than that of children, ministry officials and NGO representatives feel.

The children are apparently neglected by the ministry.

The ministry also has a lower budget allocated for children.

One of its major responsibilities is to coordinate and monitor other ministries’ child-related activities, but the ministry does not do this effectively.

The role of the ministry is also not satisfactory in implementing child-related laws and policies, including the national child policy.

This, the ministry said, is due to shortage of manpower and funds.

It also said that a decision has been taken to create a separate directorate to increase child-related work and monitoring.

Child abuse and violence against children is on the rise in recent times, including the killing of Rajon in Sylhet and Rakib murder in Khulna, the unborn baby being shot in her mother’s womb in Magura.

According to the child rights forum which includes 67 children organisations, a total of 1299 children were victims of murder, rape, kidnapping, political violence, arrest, suicide, physical torture in school, child marriage and other forms of abuse and violence in the last three months (April to June).

This information was gathered from 10 national dailies of the country. There might be many more incidents which did not appear in the media.

These incidents have raised questions concerning the role of the ministry of woman and children affairs.

UNICEF child protection specialist Shabnaz Zaherin told Prothom Alo that services are being provided to the victims of child abuse through different programmes along with the cell for the prevention of repression against women and children. Lack of responsible officials to prevent abuse makes it hard to work, especially at the district and upazila level.

State minister for women and children affairs Meher Afroz Chumki said there was less being done for children than for women by the ministry. There are a number of reasons for this, including a limited budget and shortage of manpower.

There was a difference of opinion about the percentage of children in the total population. According to the government and UNICEF, nearly 45 per cent of the total population is children. On the other hand, organisations like Manusher Jonno and others working with the children said it is 30 to 35 per cent.

The women affairs directorate and national woman association are working at district and upazila level to improve the lives of woman. On the other hand, only Shishu Academy works for children that too only for the physical, emotional and cultural growth of children.

The academy is presently working in 54 districts and only in six upazilas. Other than that, there is a child wing under a deputy secretary (child and coordination). A senior assistant secretary is the desk officer of the child wing. There is no administrative officer at district and upazila level to look after the overall issues of children. Woman-related officials and child-related officials of Shishu Academy look after the issues of children.

The ministry has no account of how many children are benefited by their work. According to the annual report of the 2012-13 fiscal in the ministry’s website (last updated on 12 August), the ministry provides 27 important services.

Conducting day-care centres (a total of 19), providing safe homes for the women, girls and children whose cases are under trial (in Lalmatia of Dhaka), 11 other child-related services including poor and abused child welfare fund, among which most of them are related to women or mother.

There is the maternity allowance programme, legal assistance through the committee on prevention of violence against women, woman support centre, one stop crisis centre, national trauma counselling centre, helpline and so on. The ministry still hangs on to the mindset that women’s development means children’s development. The ministry needs to understand that the situation has changed.

Rahima Akhtar, senior assistant secretary at the ministry’s child wing, told Prothom Alo that the ministry was formed to improve quality of life for women. The child-related issues were included later.

A total of 19 programmes including raising awareness against early marriage, renovation of Shishu Academy’s museum and, raising health awareness for Harijan community’s women and children, among others, are in progress in the ministry.

Among the ongoing 19 programmes, five are for children.

Besides, there are several proposed projects including rehabilitation of addicted children and early childhood care and development, among others.

Many allege that they know nothing about government services for children due to lack of publicity.

The ministry introduced a help line (10921) in 2012, but no one asked for help in the recent murder incidents of children, said helpline officials.

However, a total of 36,161 women and children took the help of helpline service from January, 2015 to August.

“As many as 500 children and their families phoned us asking for help in cases like early marriage and repression in three months - May to July. We have provided them our support,” said Shayla Yasmin, chief coordinator of the helpline centre.

National Trauma Counselling Centre chief Ismat Jahan said they rendered their support to around 607 children including 100 boys (below 12-year-old) and 611 women since 2009. The organisation also trained two teachers for each district over child rights.

The officials said the ministry has a budget crisis for children. The lion share of the budget goes to pay the salaries of staff and to the vulnerable group development (VGD) programme.

The first ever child budget, however, was placed in the 2015-16 fiscal year budget allocation. In order to complete the budget, the initiatives of five ministries’ dealing with children's welfare will be taken into consideration.

The other four ministries are education, health, labour and social welfare.

The ministry of women and children affairs has kept 18.59 percent of its budget allocation for the 2015-16 fiscal for children and it is 0.11 percent of the national budget.

However, several private organisations have raised questions over the ways of implementing the child budget.

Abdullah Al Mamun, programme coordinator of Manusher Jonno Foundation, told Prothom Alo, “The child budget accumulates the shares of ministries’ budget allocation. But, who will evaluate it? The budget has to be assessed from one place. And this is why; people have raised the demand of forming a separate directorate for children. The directorate would coordinate the ministries and projects on its own power.”

Wahida Banu, executive director of Aporajeyo Bangladesh, said, “The projects, which are being implemented by NGOs and donor organisations, are hardly evaluated. There remains no separate fund for project evaluation, as well.”

The government has taken a decision in principle to form a separate directorate over NGOs’ long-pending demands.

The public administration ministry has sent back a proposal in this regard women and children affairs ministry after several modifications.

State minister for women and children affairs Meher Afroz said, “It is difficult for the ministry to monitor other four ministries’ initiatives for the children.”

“If a separate directorate is opened for children, we can increase the periphery of work. But, doing everything is not possible overnight,” she added.

The minister also said that her ministry is working for poverty reduction so that the incidents of child repression decrease.