2016-10-27 15:07:00+06:00
PM launches nationwide coverage of child help line 1098
Prime minister Sheikh Hasina on Thursday launched nationwide coverage of Bangladesh’s first toll-free child helpline - 1098 - to provide a free telephone service to children who are facing violence, abuse and exploitation.

The child helpline - 1098 - enables anyone to report child rights violations, child abuse, exploitation or any other act of disruption to the protection of children by calling a toll-free number, 1098, from any corner of the country, through any mobile phone operator, said a press release.

The PM officially launched the child helpline at Gana Bhaban in the presence of social welfare minister Nuruzzaman Ahmed, Supreme Court Appellate Division judge Imman Ali, secretary to the Ministry of Social Welfare Zillar Rahman, acting CEO of Grameenphone Yasir Azman and Sara Bordas Eddy on behalf of UNICEF Bangladesh.

“A revolution has taken place in the field of ICT in Bangladesh. Today, another technological milestone has been added by launching the ‘Child Helpline - 1098’ to promote and protect child rights and give children’s interest utmost priority. I am very happy that through this service children will be able to inform their concerns to the highest authority and will receive care and support as per their individual needs. Thank you to UNICEF for supporting the government in implementing various development initiatives for women and children in Bangladesh,” Hasina said during the launch.

The child help line has been initiated in accordance with Article 90 of the Children Act 2013 to provide a means for channeling information from vulnerable children, children in conflict or contact with law as well as information of child rights violation, to an appropriate authority and simplify the process of providing information.

“UNICEF is committed to strengthening the child protection system in the country. We hope that together, we will be able to ensure a Bangladesh where all children can thrive and enjoy their rights without facing discrimination or violence,” said Sara Bordas Eddy on behalf of UNICEF Bangladesh.

The Child Sensitive Social Protection in Bangladesh Project under the Department of Social Services, Ministry of Social Welfare, supported by UNICEF Bangladesh, started Child Help Line “1098” activities as a pilot initiative all over the country in December 2015.

To date, the child helpline 1098 has supported the prevention of 379 child marriages and 2,070 children have been provided with health and education support as well as legal aid and reintegration services throughout the country through a referral mechanism. The child help line operates a 24-hour telephone line and provides emergency support to children at risk, as well as to concerned citizens who need to raise the alarm about certain children. The service also links children with existing social protection services through rescue, safe shelter, referral and networking.