2016-02-19 10:44:00+06:00
Suspected robber killed in RAB ‘encounter’
An alleged ringleader of a robber gang was shot to death during a reported encounter with Rapid Action Battalion (Rab) when the elite force raided his den to foil a burglary bid at a Sonali Bank branch in Dhamrai upazila early Friday, reports news agency UNB



The crime busting force also arrested five accomplices of the kingpin identified as Masud, 35, including two female members, and recovered one pistol, four rounds of bullet and a number of various types of instrument from the spot.



Other arrested gangsters are-Sabuj, Badsha Miah, Riazul Islam, Shila and Romana.



Contacted, Commanding Officer (CO) of Rab-4 Khandker Lutful Kabir said the gang members had rented a flat on the 2nd floor of a 5-storey building at Dhamrai Bazar in the upazila two months ago.



The Dhamrai branch of Sonali Bank is located on the 1st floor of the building.



They identified a pinpoint of a room of the rented flat, which is just above the strong room of the bank, the Rab-4 CO said, adding that they had the plan to take away the money from the strong room.



Then they removed tiles of the spotted place around four squire feet and started boring the floor with various instruments.

They already burrowed into half of the marked place, he said.



Had the robbers succeeded, it would have been a big incident of bank heist like that in Kishoreganj, he added.



Acting on a tip-off, a special team of the battalion conducted a raid on the flat at around 3:50 am and entered inside using sophisticated technique but ringleader Masud encountered the elite force spraying bullets.



The anti-crime force also returned fire that hit Masud.



Masud sustained bullet injuries and he was sent to Dhamrai Upazila Health Complex where he was declared dead at around 6:30 am.



One pistol loaded with four rounds of bullets was recovered from the spot, the RAB-4 CO added.



Burglars looted about Tk16.40 crore from the vault of Sonali Bank’s main branch in Kishoreganj district at Rathkhola of the district town in the weekend of last week of January in 2014 after making a 30-foot tunnel from the rented house of the suspected burglars.



The incident was detected in working day on January 26.



However, the elite force arrested two of the burglars’ gang, including the prime suspect, along with looted Tk16.19 crore from Shyampur Balurmath area in the capital on January 28 in the same month.



