2014-07-11 11:22:00+06:00
Outstanding loans rise 2844% in over 5 yrs
When Awami League came in power in 2009, outstanding loans were Tk 141 crores 23 lakhs in the state owned Bangladesh Small Industries and Commerce Bank Limited (BASIC).

After five years of Awami League rule, the outstanding loan has been increased to Tk 4 thousand 157 crores and 50 lakhs in BASIC Bank, which has been increased by 2844 percent, causing 53 crores in losses though in 2009 the bank earned Tk 64 crores profit.

Current board of directors, appointed by the present government, pushed the profitable bank to losses.

Approximately Tk 4500 crores had been embezzled for last four years from the bank.

The board of directors of the bank collaborated with the embezzlers all the way.

Parliamentary committee on government institutions sat on Thursday where the committee accused the board of directors of embezzling government money. Later the committee recommended taking initiatives to punish them under law.

Bank and Financial Institutions Division of finance ministry submitted a report, describing present condition of the bank and various irregularities and corruptions.

Finance ministry dissolved the board on July 6, 2014.

Earlier on July 4, BASIC Bank chairman Sheikh Abdul Hye Bacchu resigned from his post on health ground.

The government appointed Alauddin A Majid as a new chairman of the bank on the next on July 6. Four directors were appointed on July 7.

Parliamentary committee chairman Showkat Ali told journalists after the meeting that resignation is not enough for them who are involved with embezzlement. Government should punish them under law and get back the appropriated money from them.

Anti Corruption Commission said that they are not doing any investigation against BASIC Bank. Basically, ACC is not acting on this issue to save Sheikh Abdul Hay.

Former Bangladesh Bank (BB) deputy governor Khondokar Ibrahim Khaled told Prothom Alo that BB suggested dissolving board of directors of BASIC one month ago, but finance ministry did not take it seriously rather the ministry let the board continue and helped the chairman to resign.