2015-02-21 21:44:00+06:00
We don't need foreign mediation: PM
Prime minister Sheikh Hasina on Saturday said the country is now passing through a manmade disaster, which is not a common phenomenon but an attack on the independence, language and the very existence of the nation.

"The nation must have to resist the attack with counterattacks to sustain national achievements and take forward the country, and live keeping the nation's head high," she said, adding, "The present situation is a lesson for us to move forward in future."

The prime minister said this while addressing a seminar marking Amar Ekushey and International Mother Language Day at the International Mother Language Institute (IMLI) in Dhaka.

Describing the current attacks of BNP-Jamaat on the people as attacks of devils in the guise of human beings, she said, "Otherwise, how can a human being burn alive another human being? It's not politics but sheer homicide, which we can't allow to continue."

Eminent litterateur Selina Hossain presented the keynote at the seminar titled "Bhasha Andolon Theke Antarjatik Matri Bhasha Dibas: Nareer Progya" (From Language Movement to International Mother Language Day: Wisdom of Womenfolk".

Education minister Nurul Nahid chaired the session which was also addressed by education secretary Nazrul Islam Khan and director general of the IMLI Prof Jinnat Imtiaz Ali.

The immortal song "Amaar bhaiyer rakte rangano Ekushey February", translated and composed in Marma, Tripura, Bom, and Mro languages, was played on the occasion.

Attaching importance to creating awareness in every person against the ongoing violence of the BNP and the Jamaat, the prime minister said Bangladesh became a role model of development for its rapid economic progress.

"It's a big honour for us. But at that time the BNP and the Jamaat have created such a situation to damage the honour of the country by inviting foreigners for mediation to resolve the so-called political dispute," she said.

In this connection, she reiterated that Bangladesh doesn't need any foreign help to resolve present crisis. "We are capable enough to resolve it," she said.

Sheikh Hasina said Bangladesh is a country where every individual irrespective of religious identity, race, creed and caste would live with full freedom. No inhuman activity can be allowed here, she added.