2016-06-03 21:16:00+06:00
Terrorist attacks, deaths in Bangladesh soar: US
Despite its avowed 'zero-tolerance' policy towards terrorism, Bangladesh experienced a rise in terrorist attacks and number of deaths in 2015, says Washington.





In its country report on terrorism 2015, the United States observed that there has been an increase in terrorist attacks against religious minorities and government installations in Bangladesh.



For the first time, the report pointed out, 'transnational groups' have claimed responsibility for these attacks.



Released on Thursday, the report named several countries, including Afghanistan, Egypt, Syria, and Turkey, where terrorist attacks and total deaths increased in 2015.



More than 55 per cent of all attacks took place in five countries -- Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, and Nigeria.



Bangladesh witnessed a significant rise in terrorist attacks and violent extremist activities in 2015 compared to 2014, the report said.

The government of Bangladesh has attributed these attacks to the 'political opposition and local terrorists'.



The report said transnational groups such as Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and Al-Qaeda of Indian Subcontinent (AQIS) claimed several attacks targeting foreigners, religious minorities, police, secular bloggers, and publishers.



AQIS claimed attacks on 26 February, 30 March, 12 May, 7 August, and 31 October that resulted in the murders of four bloggers and a publisher, including an American citizen, the report mentioned.



ISIL, according to the report, claimed nine attacks, including the murder of an Italian NGO worker (28 September): a Japanese aid worker (3 October), and an attack on an Italian priest (18 November).



ISIL was reportedly behind an attack on a Shia Ashura procession (24 October) that killed one person and injured nearly 100; an attack on a police checkpoint (4 November) killing a police officer; and a 25 December suicide attack on an Ahmadiyya Muslim Community mosque.



The attacker died in the 25 December attack and the press reported 10-12 injuries.



Bangladesh cooperated with the US to further strengthen control of its borders and land, sea, and air ports of entry, the US report said.



It added that Bangladesh is active in several international fora and the government, in 2015, demonstrated strong interest in cooperating with India on counterterrorism.