2016-08-11 18:16:00+06:00
PM urges all to create anti-militancy awareness
Prime minister Sheikh Hasina on Thursday urged all to create awareness among people to fight against terrorism and militancy, reports news agency UNB.



"Please, create awareness among common people that the path of terrorism, militancy and killings is a wrong and unjust path and surely not the path of Islam."



Country’s ulemas (Islamic scholars) could play a very important role to this end through preaching Islam and its true lessons among common people, said the premier.



Sheikh Hasina was delivering her speech at a conference titled 'Terrorism and Militancy in Islam's Outlook and Our Steps' organised by Bangladesh Jamiutul Ulama at Krishibid Institution in the capital.

Home minister Asaduzzaman Khan, religious affairs minister Motiur Rahman, Bangladesh Jamiutul Ulama president Moulana Farid Uddin Masud also spoke on the occasion.

Earlier, Farid Uddin Masud handed over a copy of the 'Fatwa' against terrorism and militancy bearing the signatures of some one lakh ulemas, including 10,000 female ulemas.

Quoting various verses from the holy Quran, Sheikh Hasina said it could not be the lesson of Islam that anyone would go to heaven through killing innocent people here.

She also mentioned that those who unleash terrorism and bring disasters are defying the message of Islam.

"I cannot understand how they could go to heaven as they're (terrorists and militants) are killing people, creating unrest, defying the holy Quran and the directives of our prophet," she said.

The prime minister called upon the Islamic scholars to find out ways to bring back the wrong-doers to the right path. "You'll have to think and take right measures so that everyone gets right lessons of our religion."

The prime minister said although she had earlier formed a commission to work out the curricula for Qawmi madrasas but unfortunately there has not been any consensus over it.

She said since attacks are being unleashed against the holy religion, there is an urgent need to get united and fix the curricula for the Qawmi madrasas with the united efforts of all.

Hasina also suggested the religious affairs minister to expedite the process adding that the number of commission members could be increased to accomplish the task.

The prime minister said once the curriculum is finalised for Qawmi madrasas, their students will be able to study in Arabic universities and could also find better job opportunities both at home and abroad.

It is not at all acceptable to anyone that this holy religion will be maligned due to the unruly and inhuman acts of some people, she said.

"All have to remain alert so that no one could harm the dignity of our religion," Hasina said adding that the real messages of Islam need to be reached to the common people so that no one could confuse and misguide people.

Extending her heartfelt thanks to the Bangladesh Jamiutul Ulama for collecting some one lakh signatures of the ulemas against terrorism and militancy and thus giving Fatwa, Hasina said, "I believe the trust and the confidence of people in Bangladesh would remain intact over this religion."

The PM said Islam is the most humane, moderate and important religion in the whole of the world as it believes in peace not in terrorism and militancy.

"I feel sorrow some people are maligning this holy religion through killing people and unleashing terrorism and militancy going to the wrong path...due to a few number of people, the Muslims of the whole world are now facing questions," she said.

The premier said her government has already taken decision to set up a mosque and Islamic cultural education centers in every upazila and district so that no one could misguide people misinterpreting Islam.