2014-11-27 10:09:00+06:00
Border deal on the way
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has told Bangladesh's Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina that the land boundary agreement will soon be approved and that Delhi is trying hard for the Teesta water sharing agreement. He said, West Bengal's chief minister Mamata Banerjee had been opposed to the Teesta deal, but is now agreeable and so it will come through soon.

The prime ministers of the two neighbouring countries yesterday in Kathmandu also spoke on issues pertaining to terrorism and security. They held the meeting on the sidelines of the 18th SAARC summit being held in the Nepalese capital. Their meeting lasted for 45 minutes.

Present at the meeting with them were Bangladesh's foreign minister AH Mahmud Ali, Indian external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj and Indian national security advisor Ajit Doval.

Prime minister's press adviser Iqbal Sobhan Chowdhury apprised the media of the Hasina-Modi talks at Radisson Hotel yesterday.

Modi agreed with Sheikh Hasina on the issue of anti-terrorism, saying that all the countries of the region needed to work jointly against terrorism. Referring to the Burdwan bomb blast, Modi said that it is important for the Bangladesh and Indian intelligence agencies to exchange information in this regard. Sheikh Hasina said this terrorism was an obstacle to peace and progress in South Asia.

In a separate press briefing arranged at the Platinum Hotel, Syed Akbaruddin, spokesman of the Indian external affairs ministry, said that the two prime ministers had held detailed discussion on anti-terrorism and security cooperation.

The media adviser to the Bangladesh prime minister said that Modi had raised the issued of pending bilateral issues. He had said that he was making all-out efforts regarding the land boundary agreement and the Teesta deal.

Sheikh Hasina repeated her invitation to Narendra Modi to visit Bangladesh. He replied, "I will come. Discussions are being held in this regard." He said that on his Dhaka visit he would bring along Mamata Banerjee, who was opposed to the Teesta and land boundary deals.

The land boundary agreement bill awaits approval in India's Rajya Sabha. India will have to amend its constitution to pass this bill. The winter session of India's Rajya Sabha began yesterday. It is scheduled to end before Christmas. The BJP government has taken preparations to pass the land boundary agreement bill this session.

Meeting with Nawaz Sharif: Iqbal Sobhan Chowdhury said that Pakistan's prime minister Nawaz Sharif congratulated Sheikh Hasina for being elected prime minister of Bangladesh for the third time. He praised her for solving the terrorism and electricity problems in Bangladesh. The Pakistan prime minister said that a team from Pakistan would visit Bangladesh to determine strategies of resolving the power problem. He said, "Power crisis and terrorism are our main problems." He said that Pakistan faced losses of USD103 billion due to terrorism.

Sheikh Hasina praised Nawaz Sharif for his struggle to restore democracy in Pakistan. Nawaz said that his wife and daughter were admirers of Sheikh Hasina.

Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina also held meetings yesterday with Nepal's prime minister Sushil Koirala and Afghanistan's president Ashraf Ghani.