2016-07-19 14:13:00+06:00
Wage social movement against terrorism: PM
Prime minister Sheikh Hasina on Tuesday urged all to wage a social movement against terrorism and militancy to supplement government’s efforts to eradicate this social menace from the country.

“We’re investigating, we’re arresting culprits, but this is not enough. A social movement has to be waged ...everybody hast to be cautious...all have to work unitedly through creating an anti-militancy and anti-terrorism attitude,” she said.

The prime minister was speaking at the 30th raising ceremony of Special Security Force (SSF) at the International Conference Centre at her office.



She said her government will surely take actions as much as needed against the culprits who are maligning Islam, the religion of peace. “We can’t allow anyone to malign our religion, we’ll obviously take stern actions against those responsible, but a global-level awareness is also needed in this regard.”

Hasina said the people of the country are pious and they believe in the religion. “Islam is the religion of peace, but these elements are putting the religion into question,” she said pointing at the recent terror attacks at Gulshan in Dhaka and Sholakia in Kishoreganj.



The prime minister laid emphasis on creating anti-terrorism and militancy movement from the grassroots level. “People’s strength is the greatest strength, we have to resist terrorism and militancy keeping people with us.”

With the Gulshan, Sholakia, secret killings and fire terrorism those who do not want the Independence of Bangladesh and the development of the Bangalee nation are hatching conspiracies constantly, Hasina noted.



She mentioned that terrorism and militancy have spread around the world. “At the ASEM Summit, I urged the global leaders to find out the root cause of this evil,” Hasina added.

About the changing pattern of terrorism and militancy, the prime minister asked the law enforcers to receive stronger trainings keeping this view in mind alongside adopting newer technologies.

“Each force has to take steps in this regard carefully,” she directed.



Sheikh Hasina urged all to take good care of their children as this is the responsibility of all guardians.

The children of well-off families are getting derailed though their demands hardly remain unfulfilled, the prime minister said, adding, “It seems having no demand unfulfilled might cause a mental depression to them.”



She asked the guardians to spend more time with their children and try to get more information about their children. “Alongside providing proper education, guardians will have to ensure that they’re getting the main message of religion, the guardians have to take this step.”

PM’s security affairs adviser Major General (retd) Tarique Ahmed Siddique and principal secretary M Abul Kalam Azad were present on the dais. SSF director general Maj Gen M Safiqur Rahman delivered the welcome speech at the programme.