2016-10-17 10:29:00+06:00
‘Teesta issue not discussed’
Prime minister Sheikh Hasina and her Indian counterpart Narenda Modi had a bilateral meeting on Sunday night when Modi assured her to resolve all the problems with united efforts, reports news agency UNB.



Foreign secretary M Shahidul Haque told reporters after the meeting, responding to a question regarding the longstanding Teesta water sharing treaty between Bangladesh and India.



The foreign secretary said the issue of Teesta treaty did not come up for discussion at the meeting.



"But, the Indian prime minister assured his Bangladesh counterpart to resolve all the problems with united efforts,” said Shahidul Haque.



The meeting was held at Leela Hotel in Goa.



Modi also reassured Hasina that Bangladesh and India will remain together for the sake of development.



"For the sake of development, Bangladesh will stay beside India while India beside Bangladesh," Shahidul Haque told the reporters.



He said the Indian premier highly appreciated the anti-terrorism stance of Bangladesh government. "Modi also wanted to know from Hasina about the secret behind the success of her government in containing terrorism," the foreign secretary said.



Shahidul Haque termed the meeting of the two leaders of the neighbouring countries fruitful as it was held in a very cordial atmosphere.



PM's press secretary Ihsanul Karim said Sheikh Hasina informed the Indian PM about the awareness among people regarding her government's anti-terrorism stance.



"We're creating awareness against terrorism from the family level as the Imams of mosques are talking about the darkness of terrorism," the PM's press secretary quoted Sheikh Hasina as telling Modi.



He also said Hasina mentioned about the positive response from people about the awareness building against terrorism.



Replying to another question, he said there is a possibility of a bilateral visit by Sheikh Hasina to India in December next. "The foreign ministry is working on it," he said.