2016-07-03 19:45:00+06:00
Crisis to deepen if anti-militancy drives target political opponents: Khaleda
Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) chairperson Khaleda Zia on Sunday expressed apprehensions that the recent militant attacks might leave devastating and far-reaching impacts for the country.

“None of the nation’s achievements will sustain if we fail to contain terrorism. So, we need to forge an anti-terrorism national unity irrespective of political identities without any further delay,” said Khaleda while addressing a media briefing at her Gulshan office.

Khaleda was briefing newsmen in the wake of Friday’s terrorist attack at a restaurant in capital’s diplomatic zone of Gulshan that left at least 28 people killed.

A former prime minister, Khaleda also issued a warning that the authorities should not use terrorist attacks as a means to gag the opposition.

She said the nation is passing through a period of great crisis.

“Killing innocent people, no matter whatever the excuse is, can in no way prove mental soundness. We are expressing deep hatred towards these perverts,” said Khaleda Zia.

She pointed out that the Gulshan attack has acutely exposed the weaknesses in the country's security measures and also the ability of the terrorists. “We saw secret and surprise terrorist attacks in the past, but those are no more limited to surprise ones."

"A demon of dangerous terrorism has secretly grown in this country of peace-loving people. The terrorists are launching fatal attacks openly by barbaric killings," she added.

In an oblique reference to the government’s continuous denial to accept the existence of internationally-linked militants in the country, Khaleda alleged that the situation is “being worsened with the unfortunate denial of the reality.”

She noted that it is more difficult to fight an unseen enemy than a visible one.

The BNP-led 20-party opposition alliance leader said no religion or ideology supports such mindless terror acts. “Nothing could be achieved through such irrational, brutal, hot-headed and misguided path.”

Terming Islam a religion of peace, she said Islam stands against killing innocent people and against terrorism.

Dwelling on the spread of toxic tentacles of terrorism, she said terrorism has no boundary.

“Terrorism is shedding blood around the globe. Our beloved motherland is now under attack of venomous terrorism. It has been a new national crisis for us.”

She went on saying, “Friday’s attack was not only an attack at a restaurant, rather is an attack on Bangladesh. Our national security, peace, stability and our trust and belief are now under attack.”

Apprehending a far-reaching impact of the Gulshan attack, she said, “It may put an adverse and long-standing impact on our economic activities, on our lifestyle as well as on our relations with the international community.”

Thanking those countries which expressed their sympathy towards Bangladesh and offered help, the former prime minister said, “I hope they will continue all of the possible types of assistances, keeping show of respect towards our sovereignty.”

Khaleda, however, said it is the primary responsibility of the government and the people of the country to fight terrorism.

“The surge of terrorism we are witnessing now is not merely a law and order problem. The drive of the law enforcers alone will not be able to fight this terrorism. The roots of this crisis are further deep.”

Issuing warning against the use of the terrorism as a tool to gag the political opponents, Khaleda said the crisis will deepen further should the anti-terrorism drives be used to suppress political opponents.

“We must bear in mind that autocratic rule, intolerant politics, repressive regime, society having no rights, absence of rule of law, economic disparity, absence of proper education give rise to terrorism in undemocratic country.”

She said terrorism can never be stamped out unless these ills are addressed through both short term and long term means.

“I think this type of national crisis cannot be resolved without the participation of people. Only a democratic environment can ensure people’s participation,” she noted.

Calling for the national unity, Khaleda said, “Religious minority people are coming under attacks. Our long-nourished religious harmony is being destroyed. This panic, this killing spree must be brought to an end. The bloodshed must be stopped. We must unite. People should unite.”

“It’s no longer a big issue who will be there in power. Now the country and the nation are at stake. No achievement will sustain if we can’t resist terrorism and ensure safety of people’s lives,” she added.

Read more:

Khaleda calls for anti-terrorism national unity