2016-07-17 18:05:00+06:00
Unity has already developed: PM
Prime minister Sheikh Hasina on Sunday said a party through its call for anti-terrorism national unity is trying to say that it will continue “its acts of terrorism and militancy if dialogue is not held.”



Also the president of ruling Bangladesh Awami League, Sheikh Hasina made this hint while replying to a volley of questions regarding growing acts of terrorism and militancy in the country, during a media briefing at the prime minister’s official residence, Ganabhaban, in the capital city.



Referring to the call for an anti-terrorism national unity, a reporter of a private television channel observed, “A certain political party is trying to attain its political objectives. They are trying to say that militancy and terrorism will come to an end only if you sit for dialogue with them.”



The reporter asked the prime minister whether its (a certain political party) statement that terrorism will come to an end only if the government sits with them, means that it has links with the terrorist attacks.



In response, the prime minister smiled and thanked the reporter for the question and just echoed the reporter saying, “The same question pops up in my mind. Terrorism will end only if we sit with them for discussion. That’s mean they will carry on the acts of terrorism if the discussion is not held. That is my question, too. Maybe they are trying to say that they will continue patronising acts of terrorism and continue acts of terrorism if we don’t sit with them for dialogue."



In reply to an earlier question, Hasina claimed that a national unity has already developed against militancy and terrorism in the country.



When a newsman drew her attention to the plea for building an anti-terrorism national unity, Sheikh Hasina said the national consensus necessary to eradicate terrorism has already been built. "Don't you think a national consensus has already been created against terrorism and militancy? And this consensus will remain,” she said, according to UNB news agency.



The prime minister said the matter is totally different when it comes to those who are involved in terrorism and militancy, and who killed people through arson attacks and engaged in war crimes.



"Their statements are different, their views are different…. it cannot be that they’ll bite being a snake and cure being a snake-charmer," Hasina said without mentioning the names of any individual or political party.



After the two terror attacks, BNP leaders, including its chairperson Khaleda Zia, repeatedly called for forging a national unity to face the challenges of terrorism and militancy in the country.



The prime minister also took a swipe at the Bangladeshi media for wide coverage of recent terrorist attacks.



Asked whether international leaders’ anxiousness over militancy in Bangladesh and wide coverage of Bangladesh terrorist attacks in the international media is meant to humiliate Bangladesh, the prime minister posed a counter question, “Aren’t the publicity of such incidents coming more from our local media?”



She went on saying, “Look, the world media also covers the incidents of terrorism live, but… [Bangladesh] television channels are even disclosing measures being taken to resist the ongoing terrorist attack.”



The prime minister said as a result of this, the attackers come to know what actions the law enforcers were taking to resist them.

“When the incidents are covered widely in our local media, then the world media catch this news. The same things happened during the Gulshan terrorist attacks. The world media ranging from CNN to Al Jazeera were showing what our media had disclosed. So whom should we blame?”



When a newsman from Kolkata-based The Telegraph said there was concern in the India’s West Bengal state about the situation in Bangladesh and asked what measures the government is taking to defuse the fear caused by recent terrorist attacks, the prime minister referred to terrorist attacks in India and said not only Bangladesh, but the entire world is witnessing acts of terror.



When a newsman drew her attention to the media reports that terrorists are infiltrating Bangladesh from West Bengal, the prime minister said she has no information on the matter.