2014-09-02 15:12:00+06:00
PM renews firm stance against terrorism
Expressing her firm position, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Tuesday said no threat will be able to move her from her stance against terrorism and terrorists.

"Let me say it categorically, no threat will be able to move me from my stance against terrorism and terrorists," she said while inaugurating the 7th Asia-Pacific Intelligence Chiefs' Conference at a city hotel.

The conference with the theme, ‘The Future: Challenges and Opportunities for Security Cooperation’, was organized jointly by the Pacific Command of the USA and the Directorate General of Forces Intelligence (DGFI) of Bangladesh.

Sheikh Hasina said, "I will remain steadfast till my death to the pledge on eradicating terrorism that I made at the United Nations General Assembly in 2009."

She also mentioned that the government has taken effective steps to ensure that Bangladesh would not turn a safe haven for foreign extremists.

The Prime Minister underscored the need for working together and in a holistic manner by the world community to face the security challenges that confront the mankind at present.

She said there is a spread of militancy and terrorism across the world and the terrorist groups are posing threat to the life and property of the common people alongside the world peace.

She also mentioned the grenade attack of 21 August 2004 on her rally, which claimed 24 lives.

Political will, no doubt, is an important factor in combating terrorism because the experience shows that militancy spreads under the patronisation of political parties, she said.

Hasina said that her government is an active partner of all international deals, conventions and initiatives dealing with terrorism and militancy as it adopted a ‘zero tolerance’ policy towards terrorism. The government also enacted necessary laws to combat terrorism.

In this regard, she mentioned the Anti Terrorism Act, a specific legislation designed to combat terrorism in line with the UN’s Action Plan on counter terrorism strategy and other resolutions.

Besides, she said, her government also formulated a strong anti militancy National Education Policy where massive reforms have been proposed for religious education curriculum and National Counter Terrorism Strategy, acceded to the Palermo Convention against Transnational Organised Crimes, and enacted the Money Laundering Prevention Act.

The Prime Minister said that owing to Bangladesh’s successful reforms to anti-money laundering and anti terrorist financing measures, the Financial Task Force, an inter-state organisation comprising 34 developed countries and two regional organisations, removed Bangladesh’s name from their ‘grey list’.

Besides, separate bilateral deals and memorandums were signed with USA, UK, India, Australia and few other countries to combat terrorism and militancy. Bangladesh is also implementing the SAARC anti-terrorism agreement, she added.

Hasina said that as financing plays an important role in spreading militancy, her government enacted various laws and took measures to prevent financing to the terrorists in line with international laws and conventions.

Director General of DGFI Major General Akbar Hossain and Director of Defense Intelligence Agencies of USA Douglas H Wise also spoke on the occasion.