2015-09-07 21:27:00+06:00
IGP discloses security measures ahead of Eid ul Azha
Inspector General of Police (IGP) AKM Shahidul Hoque on Monday asked all the police units to ensure foolproof security so that no unpleasant incidents occur centring Eid-ul-Azha, UNB reports.

Besides, he also directed members of law-enforcing agencies not to stop any vehicle carrying sacrificial animals on the highways for checking without any specific information, for the sake of easy traffic movement.



The IGP gave the directives during a meeting on Eid security held at the police headquarters on Monday with himself in the chair. All Ranges’ DIGs, metropolitan commissioners, DIGs of Tourist Police and River police, representatives of different intelligence agencies and senior officers of police headquarters attended the meeting.



Briefing reporters at the police headquarters after the meeting, the IGP said 14 watch towers would be set up on highways to monitor traffic movement so that high officials can take instant initiatives to reduce traffic congestion.

He also said police would not allow any roadside cattle market for the sake of smooth vehicular movement.

Besides, police also would not allow setting up any cattle market if they (police) found any conflict or grouping over the setting up of the cattle market, the IGP added.

He said no truck or vehicle carrying hides of sacrificial animals would be allowed to leave Dhaka city during and after several days of the Eid-day, to prevent smuggling of animal-hides. But the vehicle carrying hides would be allowed to enter inside the city, the IGP added.

There would be check-posts set up at all six exit points of the capital, to prevent smuggling of hides.

The IGP also said that all-out security would be ensured in all the cattle markets as well as fake currency detection machines would also be set-up to stop circulation of fake currency in those markets.

Shahidul also warned against extortion in highways, and said initiatives have already been taken so that no-one can extort money from cattle-laden vehicles on the eve of Eid.