2015-12-22 21:47:00+06:00
Australia sees ‘high terrorist threat’ in Bangladesh
Australia on Tuesday renewed the travel alerts for its nationals staying in or willing to travel Bangladesh asking them to exercise a “high degree of caution in Bangladesh”.

“Australians should exercise particular caution when visiting public places during the holiday period around Christmas and New Year. Further attacks are likely, including against Western interests,” read the travel advice on the Australia's foreign office website.

It said there is “reliable information” to suggest that militants may be planning to target Australians and Western interests in Bangladesh.

The travel advice said Bangladesh has experienced a number of terrorist incidents in the past and security agencies in Bangladesh continue to arrest people connected to militant and terrorist organisations. “Some of these groups have an anti-Western outlook.”

“We advise you to exercise a high degree of caution in Bangladesh due to the high threat of terrorist attack and the uncertain political situation. Pay close attention to your personal security at all times. Monitor the media and other sources about possible security risks,” read the advice.

Australia also said in its website that since September, a number of attacks claimed by Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) have occurred in Bangladesh, some targeting foreigners.

As a result of the terrorism threat, it added, Australian officials in Bangladesh have been advised to avoid travel at night, and limit their movements in public places, including bars, hotels and events and locations frequented by foreigners.

Officials have also been advised to travel only by vehicle in Dhaka.

It also said the Australian government has authorised the dependants of posted Australian staff to return to Australia on a voluntary basis and will withdraw Australian Volunteers for International Development (funded by the Australian aid program) by 31 December.

“We advise you to reconsider your need to travel to the Chittagong Hill Tracts region because of the risk of violence and kidnapping.”



