2014-11-26 21:41:00+06:00
Probe finds 2 cops guilty for custody death
The first probe committee has found an inspector and a constable of police responsible for the death of a businessman in Dumuria police custody on November 15 in Khulna.

The four-member committee has recommended for taking maximum punitive measures against the two enforcers for "sheer neglect of duty" and "extreme inhuman attitudes".

According to the committee's probe report, Tushar Kanti Pal, a businessman, died on November 15 allegedly after jumping off from the first floor balcony while he was under custody of constable Siraz and Kazi Kamal Hossain, officer-in-charge (Investigation) of Dumuria Police Station.

"The incident occurred due to serious negligence of duty by both the sub-inspector and constable", according to the report.

While talking to BSS, Khulna Police Super Habibur Rahman confirmed the news today.

Head of the investigation Committee Additional Police Super (North) Joydeb Chowdhury submitted the probe report to SP last night.

When contacted, Joydeb Chowdhury said he submitted the report after examining 30 witnesses including victims family members and the two accused cops.

On November 16, Khulna Police Super Habibur Rahman formed a four-member probe body with Additional SP Joydeb Chowdhury as its chief and asked the body to submit report within three days.

The probe body filed a petition to SP for seeking more three days on November 20 as they did not complete investigation.

The second probe committee is expected to submit the probe report on Thursday (tomorrow).

Deputy Inspector of Police (DIG) of Khulna Range Moniruzzaman constituted the three-member probe body with Additional DIG Didar Ahmad as its chief and asked the committee to submit report within seven days.

Earlier, Officer-in-charge (Investigation) Kazi Kamal Hossain and constable Siraz of Dumuria Police Station were closed to police lines on charge of negligence to duty.

Tushar Kanti Pal was arrested from the city's Boyra area on November 14 on charge of kidnapping a woman from Dumuria two months ago.