2015-08-13 20:22:00+06:00
Hall-Mark scam: investigation into non-funded part launched
The Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC) has finally launched investigation into the corruption in the non-funded part of the much-talked-about Hall-Mark scam.

The decision of the investigation into embezzlement of about Tk 1,500 crore of the company was taken at a special meeting of the ACC held recently.

ACC commissioner (Investigation) M Sahabuddin on Thursday told Prothom Alo that a team lead by ACC deputy director Mir Joynul Abedin Shiblee would investigate the allegation. The other team members are yet to be finalised.

An eight-member team led by Joynul Abedin Shiblee earlier finished investigation into the corruption allegation in the funded part of the Hall-Mark scam. Most members of that team have been posted to different ACC offices outside Dhaka. That is why, ACC sources could not confirm whether the new investigation team would be constituted with those old members or new team members would be selected.

Following an ACC letter to the bank on 16 June, the international trade finance division of Sonali Bank has sent an investigation report to the special search and investigation department of the ACC that consists of about 6,000 pages.

The report contains allegations of embezzling Tk 1,100 crore against 1,581 bills.

The issue was discussed in the regular meeting of the ACC on 22 June, after receiving the report from the bank. In the meeting, the related division was given the responsibility to make a summary of the bank’s investigation report on the non-funded part of the Hall-Mark embezzlement in order to produce it before the commission as a presentation.

The commission took decision to investigate into the non-funded part of the Hall-Mark scam after the summary was presented before the commission in the meeting.

ACC sources said, Hall-Mark along with six other companies misappropriated Tk 3,569 crore from Sonali Bank’s Ruposhi Bangla hotel branch. The ACC started the investigation in 2012.

The anti-corruption watchdog filed 11 cases against 27 people on 4 October 2012, including the managing director of Hall-Mark group, Tanvir Mahmud, his wife and also chairman of the group Jasmine Islam, former managing director of Sonali Bank Humayun Kabir, and deputy general manager of Sonali Bank’s Ruposhi Bangla hotel branch AKM Azizur Rahman for embezzling Tk 1,568 crore against recognised bills after completion of the investigation into the funded part of the scam.

Some of the accused are still in jail including Hall-Mark MD Tanvir Mahmud. Sonali Bank’s AKM Azizur Rahman died in the meantime. The ACC also filed 27 cases against other five companies for embezzling Tk 386 crore.

However, the investigation into the embezzlement of non-funded Tk 1,500 crore using false documents of supplying goods to Hall-Mark was kept on hold due to the lack of proper investigation papers.

That is why, the investigation into the country’s biggest bank scam is yet to be completed.

The controversial group swindled out a huge amount of cash from the bank’s Ruposhi Bangla branch while it also plundered money from 37 private banks, misusing Sonali Bank clearances in the name of supplying goods to Hall-Mark.

The money the Hall-Mark group swindled out from Sonali Bank’s Ruposhi Bangla branch in cash is the funded part.

In the non-funded part, the Hall-Mark group plundered Tk 1,500 crore against 2,186 bills from as much as 110 branches of 37 commercial banks.