2016-02-19 21:59:00+06:00
'One confesses to four-child murder'
Suspect Rubel on Friday reportedly confessed before a Habiganj court to his involvement in the killing of four children at Sundrateki village in Bahubal upazila, reports news agency UNB.



Senior judicial magistrate Kaushik Ahmed Khandakar recorded the statement of Rubel under section 164 of the code of criminal procedure, said police super of the district Joy Deb Kumar Bhadra at a press conference at his office at night.



The SP said the gruesome murders took place following rivalries over panchayet. “We’ve unearthed the motive behind the murders.”



In his confessional statement, Rubel told the court that six people were involved in the killing.



Police said Abdul Ali of the Sundrateki village had been at loggerheads with panchayet leader Khaleque Master over establishing supremacy in the locality. Abdul Aziz, father of victim Tajel Miah, was known as the right hand of Khaleque Master.



CNG-driven auto-rickshaw driver Bachchu of the village was also a supporter of Khaleque Master. However, he was expelled from the panchayet following a dispute with the leader.



Later, Abdul Ali along with Bachchu worked out a plan to teach Khaleque Master a lesson and they targeted Abdul Aziz first. They decided to kill Aziz or his son to take revenge on the panchayet leader.



Rubel and Bachchu had planned to kidnap Aziz’s son Tajel from a football match scheduled to be held on 12 February. However, the match was abandoned due to rain.



The police super said Bachchu tactfully took the four children to his auto-rickshaw in the afternoon. Later, Rubel, Arju and several others joined him and made the children unconscious.



They strangulated the four children inside the three-wheeler and kept the bodies at the garage of Bachchu. Later, they buried the bodies under the ground on Saturday night.



Four schoolboys who had gone missing from Sundrateki village in Bahubal upazila on 12 February were found buried at the village on Wednesday morning.



Informed by locals, police recovered the bodies of Zakaria Ahmed Shuvo, 8, son of Wahid Miah, his two cousins --Tajel Miah, 10, son of Abdul Aziz, Monir Miah, 7, son of Abdal Miah -- and Ismail Hossain, 10, son of Abdul Quadir.



On Wednesday night, police arrested Abdul Ali and his brother Jewel Miah in connection with the gruesome murder. They were placed on a 10-day remand on Thursday.



Police also arrested Rubel, Arju and Bashir on Thursday.



In another development, police seized the auto-rickshaw used for carrying the four children from the cowshed of Bachchu on Friday afternoon.

Meanwhile, state minister for women and children affairs Meher Afroze Chumki said those who were involved in killing the four schoolboys at Sundrateki village in Bahubal upazila would be tried in a tribunal.



Chumki asked the superintendent of Habiganj police to take necessary steps to ascertain whether there is any negligence on the part police.

"It's a heinous murder. We must ensure the safety of children," she said adding, "The killers will be brought to book soon after their arrest and they will get exemplary punishment."



Read more:

2 remanded over four-kid murder

Another held for link to four-kid murder