2016-02-20 13:00:00+06:00
Another held over Habiganj 4-child murder
Police arrested another person for his suspected link of killing four schoolboys, who had gone missing from Sundrateki village in Bahubal upazila on February 12, from the same village on Saturday morning, reports news agency UNB.

Local people caught Saleh Uddin, brother of Bashir Ahmed, who was arrested in the killing case, at about 10:30 am and informed police, said officer-in-charge of Bahubal Police Station Mosharraf Hossain.

Later, police rushed in and arrested Saleh Uddin.

A total of six people have so far been arrested in connection with the gruesome murder.

Earlier on February 17, police arrested Abdul Ali and his son Jewel Miah from Sundrateki village for their suspected link to the killing incident. They were placed on a 10-day remand on February 18.

The law enforcers also arrested Rubel, another son of Abdul Ali, Arju and Bashir on February 18.

Suspect Rubel on February 19 reportedly confessed before a local court to his involvement in the killing of the four children.

Police said Abdul Ali of the Sundrateki village had been at loggerheads with panchayet leader Khaleque Master over establishing supremacy in the locality. Abdul Aziz, father of victim Tajel Miah, was known as the right hand of Khaleque Master.

CNG-driven auto-rickshaw driver Bachchu of the village was also a supporter of Khaleque Master. However, he was expelled from the panchayet following a dispute with the leader.

Later, Abdul Ali along with Bachchu worked out a plan to ‘teach Khaleque Master a lesson’ and they targeted Abdul Aziz first. They decided to kill Aziz or his son to take revenge on the panchayet leader.

Rubel and Bachchu had planned to kidnap Aziz’s son Tajel from a football match scheduled to be held on February 12. However, the match was abandoned due to rain.

Superintendent of Police Joydeb Kumar Bhadra said Bachchu tactfully took the four children to his auto-rickshaw in the afternoon of February 12. Later, Rubel, Arju and several others joined him and made the children unconscious.

They strangulated the four children inside the three-wheeler and kept the bodies at the garage of Bachchu. Later, they buried the bodies under the ground on Saturday night.

Four schoolboys who had gone missing from Sundrateki village in Bahubal upazila on February 12 were found buried at the village on Wednesday morning.

Informed by locals, police recovered the bodies of Zakaria Ahmed Shuvo, 8, son of Wahid Miah, his two cousins-Tajel Miah, 10, son of Abdul Aziz, Monir Miah, 7, son of Abdal Miah-and Ismail Hossain, 10, son of Abdul Quadir.