2014-06-01 11:41:00+06:00
3 RAB officials repent of killing lawyer
Three former officers of Rapid Action Battalion (RAB)-11 during a remand for quizzing admitted their involvement in the 7 murders of Narayanganj.

An investigation source said they repented of killing lawyer Chandan Sarkar and his driver.

In the remand, the three personnel said they did not have any plan to kidnap Chandan Sarkar. He and his driver became the victims of the circumstances.

The sources linked with the investigation said main accused of 7-murder case absconding Nur Hossain is the main plotter of the abductions and murders of councillor Nazrul Islam and his associates.

The RAB personnel in exchange for money executed the plan though they did not admit taking money from Nur Hossain. Moreover, the investigation found indications that Shamim Osman, who was annoyed with councillor Nazrul, knew the murder plan before the incident.

The higher level of government has been informed of the latest findings of the investigation. If the authorities give green light, the investigation committee will start to prepare the charge sheet of the case.

So far, a total of 28 people were arrested and taken in police custody. Among them 14 people including RAB former personnel lieutenant colonel (rtd)Tareque Mohammad Sayeed, major (rtd) Arif Hossain and lieutenant commander (rtd) M M Rana were interrogated the murder case and the others were arrested and interrogated under Section 54 of the code of criminal procedure.

Meanwhile, Awami League councillor Nur Hossain's so-called girlfriend Jannatul Ferdous has been interrogated as an arestee in another murder case.

The sources concerned said that after abducting seven people, Nur Hossain kept contact with the then RAB 11 personnel major Arif Hossain.

Some times following the abduction, in the April 27 afternoon, Nur Hossain was with lawmaker Shamim Osman at Riffle Club in Narayanganj. Hossain talked with major Arif through cell phones sitting beside Shamim Osman. The police have already collected the cell phone conversation between Nur Hossain and major Arif.

Sources said that Tareque Sayeed said in interrogation that they took away Nazrul and his associates to improve the law and order situation of Siddhirganj. He was told that Nazrul among 7 others were held but he did not know that a lawyer was among them.

M M Rana said in the interrogation that he asked major Arif not to kill lawyer Chandan Sarkar and his driver.

The RAB former personnel did not admit the allegation brought against them by Nazrul Islam's father-in-law Shahidul Islam that they were paid Tk 6 crore from Nur Hossain for killing seven persons.

But police has information that major Arif took money from Nur Hossain at several times.