2014-11-12 21:27:00+06:00
Rab, police now forces of kidnap, murder: Khaleda
BNP chairperson Khaleda Zia on Wednesday called on the people and foreign nations to be vocal for disbanding Rapid Action Battalion (Rab) as the force is killing youths, students and innocent people and repressing opposition activists.

She deplored that the police force has also turned into a corrupt institution as its members are now killing and repressing people instead of giving security to public life and property.

The BNP chief made the remarks while addressing a mammoth rally at Gurudoyal Government College ground in Kishorganj district town. The BNP-led 20-party alliance arranged the rally with district BNP acting president Shariful Alam in the chair to drum up public support in favour of their demand for a snap election under a non-partisan government.

She renewed her demand that the elite force Rab be disbanded saying it has now become a squad of killing people and making them disappeared.

Asking her party men to face repressive forces with swords and shields, BNP Chairperson Khaleda Zia called upon the foreign countries not to provide arms and ammunition for Bangladesh’s law enforcers for what she said their growing repressive acts.

“Kishoreganj is the soil of brave hero Isa Khan. You surely didn’t forget about the sword of Isa Khan. So, if you don't have anything in your hands and the repression is intensified then there’ll remain swords and shields for you (to counter it),” she said.

Khaleda was very critical of the law enforcers as her address mainly focused on their repressive acts against the opposition leaders and activists.

The BNP chief also urged the United Nations not to hire Rab members for its peacekeeping missions abroad as they will tarnish Bangladesh’s image by carrying out such misdeeds there.

Khaleda also requested the international bodies so that they do not provide training to the Rab members.

“I call upon foreign countries not to sell arms, ammunition, teargas and explosives to the police force because those are being used against opposition leaders and activists, common people and for students killing and making them disappeared instead of using against militants and terrorists,” she said.

The former Prime Minister said her party, if necessary, will send documents and reports on the repressive acts of Rab and police to the international rights bodies so that the foreign countries consider their call with importance.

Hinting at the ruling Awami League, the BNP chief alleged that a 'new Mirjafar' (new traitor) has long been conspiring against BNP and the country.

“If there is Mirjafar, there must be Siraj ud-Daulah and that Mirjafar did never win against Siraj ud-Daulah. We also carry the blood of Siraj ud-Daulah. We’ll defeat the new Mir Jafar and our victory is certain.”

Khaleda also pledged that they will change the face of the country by establishing a pro-people government following a free, fair and inclusive election under a non-partisan interim administration. “We’ll change all those old elements and will start with new ones. We must bring change in the country,” she said.

In her 57-minute speech, Khaleda harshly criticised the government for what she said indulging in corruption and extortion, plundering public money, failure to maintain law and order and utility services, attracting foreign investment, destroying banking sector, capital market, garment sectors and education sector.

Turning to the judiciary, an upset Khaleda said people will not be spared of judges, no matter how much high profile they are, if they commit any injustice.

She called upon the judges to ensure justice, “or else you’ll have to be accountable before almighty Allah on the judgment day.”

Khaleda assured the judges that the opposition alliance will remain with them and they need not to be feared.

Pointing to rice export, she said the government imports rice at high prices but exporting at lower ones.

Taking a swipe at Chhatra League, Jubo League Swechchasebak League for what she said their involvement in terrorist acts and corruption, Khaleda said the three associate bodies of the ruling party have become the most powerful bodies in the country with the support of police.

The BNP chief said the ruling party is unwilling to hold an election under a non-party government as it knows it very well that their consequences will be worse than the autocratic military ruler HM Ershad after its fall.

Criticising the government for 'foiling' their November-8 Suhrawardy Udyan rally, the BNP chief alleged that the government is repressing the opposition leaders and activists and obstructing their programmes using the law enforcers.

Khaleda lamented that there were no noteworthy development activities carried out in Kishoreganj though it is the homeland of two former presidents, current president and influential ministers and MPs.

Earlier, a man wearing royal dress with a wooden sword in his hand riding an elephant welcomed Khaleda when she reached Kishorganj Circuit House at 3pm.

This was Khaleda's eighth visit outside the capital since January-5 election boycotted by her party.

On the occasion of the rally, the town wore a festive look as its central points were decorated with colourful banners, posters, festoons and placards.

Several hundred arches were erected from Bhairab-Megna Bridge to the rally venue to welcome the BNP chairperson.

Khaleda last visited Kishoreganj in 2006 when she was in office.

During the 2008 election campaign, she visited Bhairab but not Kishoreganj.