2016-05-11 20:46:00+06:00
Pakistan national assembly protests at Nizami execution
The national assembly of Pakistan on Wednesday passed a unanimous resolution expressing serious concerns over the execution of Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami ameer Matiur Rahman Nizami, reports news agency UNB.



The resolution was moved by minister for science and technology Rana Tanvir Hussain.



It condemned the judicial proceedings describing those as against the ‘law, justice and human rights’.



Earlier, the national assembly resumed its session in Islamabad with speaker Sardar Ayaz Sadiq in the chair.



On points of order, Sahibzada Tariqullah, Shaista Pervaiz and Shah Mahmood Qureshi condemned the execution of Nizami.



They said the execution was a ‘violation’ of agreement signed among Bangladesh, India and Pakistan in 1974. They were of the view that the execution is a ‘judicial murder and violation of human rights’.



Mahmood Khan Achakzai proposed that a parliamentary committee should be formed, which will visit Bangladesh in coordination with the foreign office for talk on the issue.

At the outset of the proceedings, the house offered Fateha for the departed soul of the executed Jamaat leader.



Speaking on the resolution, minister for railways Khawaja Saad Rafique said the execution of political opponents in Bangladesh is a serious issue, causing unrest among the Pakistanis.



He claimed that those who were executed did not violate the law and constitution of the united Pakistan. He called for immediate steps with the cooperation of other Islamic countries for stopping these executions in Bangladesh.



Members while condemning the executions emphasised that the matter should be raised in the united Nations.



They also called for convening an OIC meeting to discuss the issue.



They said protest should be lodged while remaining within the diplomatic norms.



When approached by the Prothom Alo, professor of history at Dhaka University Muntasir Mamun termed Pakistan’s reaction normal.



“The reaction Pakistan made shows how mean-minded it is in its civilisation and culture. Each of the word of its reaction is false. Pakistan had launched genocide with such falsehood,” said Muntasir.



The academician said the statement of Pakistan’s foreign ministry has once again proved that Matiur Rahman Nizami and others did “politics in favour of Pakistan and carried out genocide.”



He alleged Pakistan does not practise democracy. “It rather patronises militancy and fundamentalism. There is nothing to be worried about the reaction of such a country.”



The Dhaka University professor asked the government to curtail its relations with Pakistan and should be kept at the lowest level.



He also said Dhaka should lodge protest against the reaction of Turkey and Qatar based ulema group the way it should protest at Pakistan’s reaction.



“Why will we not be able to defy Turkey if we can defy the United States?” he asked.

Read more:



Turkey condemns Nizami’s execution

Islamabad saddened at Nizami’s execution

Nizami executed