2014-09-04 19:53:00+06:00
Defence concludes argument on charge No. 1 against Azharul
A defence counsel for war crimes accused ATM Azharul Islam, a 1971 ‘Al Badr’ commander, on Thursday pleaded for not taking into consideration the recorded statement of late Abdul Jabbar Sarker, a prosecution witness, as evidence for proving the charge against his client that carries capital punishment.

Upon a prosecution plea under section 19 (2) of the International Crimes (Tribunals) Act, 1973, the three-member tribunal had accepted PW Jabbar Sarker’s statement recorded by the investigation officer as evidence sans cross-examination against accused Azharul.

The provision of the Act empowers the tribunal in this regard that says: “A tribunal may receive in evidence any statement recorded by a magistrate or an investigation officer being a statement made by any person who, at the time of the trial, is dead or whose attendance cannot be procured without an amount of delay or expense which the tribunal considers unreasonable.”

Moving the plea during the defence case summing-up arguments, counsel A Sobhan Tarafder told the tribunal-1, headed by Justice M Enayerur Rahim, that the statement made by the PW Jabbar cannot be taken into cognisance as evidence since he died long before the commencement of the trial.

In support of his contention, he said that the statement of PW Jabbar was recorded by the investigation officer (IO) of the case on May 9 in 2012 and the PW died on May 10, 2013.

Tarafder said the IO submitted his report on July 4, 2013 while the trial started with the framing of charge against his client on November 12, 2013. So, late Jabbar’s evidence is not applicable as it does not qualify the term of the Act -- ‘the PW died at the time of trial’, he said, describing PW Jabbar as interested witness.

On the fifth day of the defence case summing-up arguments, Tarafder made an additional point on charge No.1 accusing his client of abetting, persecuting and killing 11 pro-liberation people along with his Jamaat-e-Islami activists and in collaboration with the Pakistan occupation forces in the launching of the Liberation War.

The tribunal framed charges against Azharul for his involvement in crimes against humanity, including genocide, during the Liberation War in collaboration with the Pakistan occupation army.

Also assistant secretary general of Jamaat-e-Islami, Azharul faces six counts of charges of crimes against humanity during the 1971 Liberation War like killing, abduction, confinement, torture, loot, arson, rape and genocide in Rangpur district.

A week after submitting the formal charge by the prosecution, the tribunal on July 25, 2013 took cognisance of the charge against Azharul as it found a strong prima facie case against the accused under sections 3(2) and 4(1) (2) of the International Crimes (Tribunals) Act, 1973.

According to the prosecution case, Azharul had been involved in the killing of more than 1,200 unarmed innocent civilians in Rangpur during the Liberation War in collaboration with the Pakistan occupation army.

It mentioned that Azharul Islam had played a key role in the killing of intellectuals, cultural personalities, physicians and lawyers in different areas of Rangpur during the 1971 war.

On August 22, 2012, police arrested Azharul from his Moghbazar house in the capital in connection with the war crimes case, after the tribunal issued a warrant for his arrest upon a prosecution plea.