2014-12-23 12:32:00+06:00
Qaiser to die for war crimes
The International Crimes Tribunal-2 on Tuesday condemned Jatiya Party leader SM Qaiser to death for his crimes against humanity during the Liberation War.

The court found Qaiser guilty on 14 counts among 16 offences submitted by the prosecution.

Earlier on the day, Qaiser was produced before the tribunal for announcement of the verdict.

The three-member tribunal, headed by Justice Obaidul Hassan, announced the verdict after summing-up the case arguments with law-points from both sides.

On February 2 this year, the tribunal indicted Syed Mohammad Qaiser for his involvement in crimes against humanity, including genocide in 1971 Liberation War.

On August 5, 2013, responding to a petition, the tribunal granted Qaiser bail, subject to conditions, on medical and humanitarian grounds.

Septuagenarian Qaiser, a turncoat politician, was arrested on May 21 last year in connection with the war crimes case.

On November 14, 2013, after perusing the formal charge with 16 counts of offences submitted by the prosecution and the relevant documents, the tribunal took cognisance of the formal charge as it found prima facie case against the accused under sections 3(2) and 4(1) (2) of the International Crimes (Tribunals) Act 1973.

According to the investigation agency, after the independence of Bangladesh, Qaiser, a former Pakistan Convention Muslim League activist, entered politics by joining BNP and subsequently became the president of Habiganj BNP.

Later, he quit BNP to join Ershad’s Jatiya Party and became state minister for agriculture in 1989. According to information, he lately joined the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) of Col (retd) Oli Ahmad.

Qaiser, as a local Peace Committee leader during the Liberation War, had formed a vigilante group ‘Qaiser Force’ after his name comprising 500-700 of his trusted men in Habiganj and committed crimes against humanity, including genocide, in collaboration with the Pakistani occupation army.

At the latter part of the Liberation War, he had fled to London and returned home after August 1975 political changeover.