2016-05-13 00:01:00+06:00
Dhaka protests at Islamabad resolution
The government on Thursday conveyed its strong protest against the press release published on Wednesday in the website of the ministry of foreign affairs of Pakistan and subsequent passing of a resolution at the National Assembly of Pakistan on the execution of condemned war criminal Motiur Rahman Nizami.





Pakistan high commissioner to Bangladesh Shuja Alam was summoned on Thursday and secretary Mizanur Rahman handed over a note verbale to him, according to a foreign ministry media release.





In the note verbale, it was stated that by repeatedly taking the side of those Bangladesh nationals who are convicted of crimes against humanity and genocide, Pakistan has once again acknowledged its direct involvement and complicity with the mass atrocities committed during Bangladesh’s efforts to ensure justice and break the culture of impunity for the crimes committed 45 years ago.





It was also stated that the government of Bangladesh strongly repudiated Pakistan’s version of Nizami’s ‘only sin’, as mentioned in the Pakistan foreign office’s press release, was to uphold the Constitution of Pakistan, whereas it was in abeyance at that time.





In fact, he was tried for specific crimes he committed during the liberation war of Bangladesh, the note verbale says.





It was further stated that the International Crimes Tribunal trials took solely into consideration the crimes against humanity and genocide in Bangladesh committed by Nizami during 1971 and was not at all based on his political identity or affiliation.

The ICT sentenced Nizami to death for planning, instigating and executing genocide, murder, torture, rape and deportation among other crimes in Pabna and Dhaka during the liberation war.





The note verbale further said that Nizami belonged to some opposing political party is only a coincidence as far as the trials are concerned.





It was made clear to the Pakistani envoy that to the people of Bangladesh he was a leader of Islami Chhatra Sangha and also the head of the infamous Al Badr militia force in 1971 which not only cooperated with the Pakistani occupation forces in committing various crimes against humanity, including genocide, but also masterminded the formation of Al Badr Bahini which had gained particular notoriety for executing the prominent progressive Bengal intellectuals.





The high commissioner was reminded that Pakistan continues to present a misleading, limited and partial interpretation of the underlying premise of the Tripartite Agreement of April 1974 which is totally unacceptable to Bangladesh.





The scope of the 1974 agreement was limited to repatriation of 195 Pakistani war criminals and remaining Pakistani prisoners of war, and the return of the Bengalis stranded inside Pakistan.





The note strongly stated that in no way the 1974 Agreement had given clemency to the Bangladeshi war criminals, including the members of Razakar, Al Badr, Al Shams.





Mentioning the wounds and trauma inflicted in Bangladesh’s national psyche by those crimes, the note stated that this can be healed and put behind only through ensuring justice as Bangladesh continues with its onward march.





By opposing the ICT verdicts and the executions, Pakistan has blatantly dishonoured the sentiment of the people of Bangladesh and the spirit of the Liberation War of 1971, which are the basic premise of Bangladesh’s nationhood.





In the note, the government of Bangladesh deeply regretted that despite Bangladesh’s repeated overtures, the malicious campaign by Pakistan against the trails of the crimes against humanity and genocide in Bangladesh is continuing. This is an impediment to the bilateral relations.





The high commissioner was told to take serious note of the points raised by Bangladesh and bring those to the attention of the competent authorities in Pakistan. The Government of Bangladesh expected that the quarters/ authorities in Pakistan would act responsibility and would refrain from continuing such uncalled for statements.

Read more:



Dhaka, Islamabad summon each other's HCs

Pakistan national assembly protests at Nizami execution

Dhaka summons Pakistan high commissioner

Pakistan slams Nizami’s review rejection

Islamabad should stop interfering in Dhaka affairs: Shahriar

Nizami executed