2014-10-24 13:17:00+06:00
Convicted for conspiracy, killing and torture
The crimes that Ghulam Azam committed during the liberation war are deserving of death sentence. However, in consideration of his age and physical condition, the International Crimes Tribunal-1 sentenced him to 90 years imprisonment instead. This verdict was declared on 15 July 2013.

Conspiracy and plotting: In the charge of conspiracy against Ghulam Azam, six counts were brought forward and in the charge of plotting, three counts were mentioned. Through these incidents Ghulam Azam carried out conspiracies and plots for crimes against humanity and genocide.

In its verdict, the tribunal stated that Ghulam Azam and his associates met with Tikka Khan and President Yahya Khan several times and jointly played a role in forming the semi-military force which collaborated with the Pakistani army. They took the peace committee to the grassroots. They tried to resist the independence of Bangladesh by forming various forces such as Razakar, Al-Badr. Al-Shams, etc. He had appealed to the Pakistan president to provide arms to the "genuine patriots, the razakars" and to increase the number of razakars, in order to wipe out the Bengalis who were striving for freedom.

The circumstantial evidence gathered from the activities of the accused led the tribunal to believe that he was involved in conspiracy and plotting which let to genocide and crimes against humanity carried out by the semi-military forces all over the country. As these two charges were proven beyond doubt, the tribunal convicted Ghulam Azam to 20 years of imprisonment, ten years for each charge.

Incitement: Ghulam Azam was charged with 28 incidents of incitement during the liberation war. It was said that Ghulam Azam, through his speeches and statements, incited his followers to commit crimes against humanity and genocide.

The verdict said that Ghulam Azam's vengeful speeches expressed hatred towards Hindus and communal feelings aimed at driving the community away from the country or destroying them. His meeting with the head of state indicated Ghulam Azam's high position and there are clear indications of his inciting razakars to commit crimes against humanity and genocide.

Inciting is the first step to crime and Ghulam Azan clearly incited the forces under him to commit crimes. As this allegation was proved, Ghulam Azam was given a 20-year prison sentence.

Abetment: Ghulam Azam faced 23 charges of abetment in crimes against humanity.

The tribunal verdict stated that, collaborating with the Pakistan Army, the peace committee, razakars, Al-Badr, Al-Shams and other forces committed inhuman crimes throughout the country and these forces mainly comprised members of Jamaat's student front at the time, Islami Chhatra Sangha. As the Amir of Jamaat, Ghulam Azam has direct control over these forces. Ghulam Azam intentionally instigated these forces to commit crimes. As this was proven, he was sentenced to another 20 years' imprisonment.

Killing and torture: Charges of killing and torture were also levelled against Ghulam Azam. It was said that 38 persons including Comilla's Shiru Mia, his son Anwar Kamal, Nazrul Islam, Abul Kasem and others were killed and tortured at this orders.

The tribunal stated that he could have saved the lives of Shiru Mia and Anwar Hossain by instructing his subordinate Peara Miah, but he did not do so. He instead abetted the killers through his negative decision. With this proven, he was given a 30-year imprisonment sentence.

The tribunal declared that the sentences would be carried out successively or until his death.

Related Stories:

War criminal Ghulam Azam dies

Bangladeshi war criminal likened to Hitler