2017-03-29 21:57:00+06:00
Steps to be taken to try 195 Pak war criminals: Minister
Law minister Anisul Huq on Wednesday said the government will take steps to bring back 195 war criminals of Pakistani military as the country breached the deal under which they had been handed over to it after Bangladesh's liberation war.



"I would like to draw the attention to the agreement signed by Pakistan, India and Bangladesh under which they [195 Pakistani war criminals] were handed over to Pakistan. Many say with this deal we had agreed not to try them. But, I disagree with them," he said.



Speaking at a seminar in the capital, the minister further said, "In this agreement, a condition was tagged that there were people who wanted to go to Pakistan, and Pakistan was under an obligation to receive them. Pakistan on its part will have to live up to their obligations, only then Bangladesh will have to live unto the obligation of not trying the 195 army Pakistan military members."



In an oblique reference to Pakistan's denial of accepting thousands of stranded Pakistanis, Anisul said Pakistan did not live up to its commitment. “So, there's been a breach of the agreement and we shouldn't abide by that agreement. We can now try the 195 war criminals of Pakistani army for violating the deal."



The Bangladesh Institute of International and Strategic Studies (BIISS) arranged the commemorative seminar titled ‘25 March Ganahatya Dibash (Genocide Day)’ at its auditorium.

The minister said the announcement of 25 March as the Genocide Day has created a scope for the country to go to the International Criminal Court to force Pakistan to hand over the 195 Pakistani war criminals who had been handed over to it by that agreement.

"Yes, some of them have already died, but many are still alive. We should make a very strong claim for them. I can tell you as the law minister, I'll put forward the case before the cabinet and we'll peruse it to bring back those criminals," he assured his audience.

After the trial of the local collaborators of the Pakistani occupation forces, Anisul said the investigation team of the International Crimes Tribunal (ICT) also probed the crimes committed by the 195 war criminals.

He said though it took a long time to announce 25 March as the Genocide Day, Bangladesh has finally joined the legacy created by Nuremberg trial.