2016-02-03 21:26:00+06:00
Road blocked for shipping minister’s meeting
A pro-Awami League organisation, International People’s Justice Movement for War Crimes, on Wednesday submitted a memorandum to the speaker of parliament, listing 10 demands including enactment of a law against distorting history of the liberation war, and the number of martyrs and denying the genocide.



Before handing over the memorandum, the organisation organised a gathering in front of the National Press Club, completely blocking the road for an hour, creating inordinate suffering for the common people.



Shipping minister Shahjahan Khan arrived at the meeting in front of the press club at four in the afternoon. The road had been blocked and the meeting started earlier, at 3:20 pm.



Leaders and activists of the organisation placed a truck in the middle of the road, using it as a platform to deliver their speeches.

This created a serious traffic jam at the press club, Paltan, and the secretariat areas. After the meeting, minister Shahjahan Khan, who is the convenor of the organisation, led a procession past the High Court, Matsya Bhaban, up to the Engineers Institution.



Two ambulances got caught up in the jam, blocked by the procession. The police finally stopped the activists in front of the Institution of Engineers, Bangladesh, after which a delegation went to the Jatiya Sangsad to hand over the memorandum to the speaker.



Speaking at the meeting, Shahjahan Khan said Pakistan has violated the surrender agreement which called for the trial of 195 Pakistani soldiers, apology by the Pakistan president to the people of Bangladesh and settlement of outstanding dues. He said that there was no obstacle to put them on trial as they had violated the agreement.



The memorandum demanded confiscation of the the assets of those who committed crimes against humanity and a cancellation of their citizenship; a move to ensure international recognition of the genocide; banning and putting on trial Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami and its associated organisations; legal action against individuals and institutions funding anti-independence activities; sending back stranded Pakistanis; recovery of foreign aid for the 1970 cyclone in East Bengal; and due compensation for the genocide, killings, rapes, looting and arson committed by the Pakistani army.



Also present at the gathering were Abdul Mannan Chowdhury, Ismat Kadir Gama, Osman Ali, Kamrul Alam, actress Rokeya Prachi, Badruddoza Nizam and others.