2016-11-27 19:31:00+06:00
Khaleda asks Myanmar to stop Rohingya genocide
Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) chairperson Khaleda Zia on Sunday called the repression of Rohingya Muslims by Myanmar forces as ‘genocide’, asking the Bangladesh authorities to give them shelter as much as possible.



“I am deeply shocked and concerned over the brutal genocide being carried out by the government forces of neighbouring Myanmar on the Rohingya community,” she said in a statement issued by her press secretary Maruf Kamal Khan.



The BNP leader also called on the international community to play an active role in bringing an end to the persecution of Rohingyas and to ensure that they live their homeland of Myanmar with safety and security.

A former prime minister, Khaleda Zia was very critical of Myanmar leader Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi for the persecution of Rohingyas.

“The Rohingyas are being killed by shooting and slaughtering. They are being burnt to death. They are being evicted from their homestead setting fire to their houses, villages after villages. Rohingya women are being violated. Even infants are not being spared,” Khaleda observed giving a gloomy picture of the situation in Myanmar's Rakhine state.

“It's a matter of great regret that it is not military junta rather the very administration of Nobel peace prize winner Aung San Suu Ki, who was elected democratically, is the mastermind of this inhuman terrorist activities,” she said.

“We are stunned thinking how she [Suu Kyi] who herself suffered repression in jail for long is allowing this barbaric act!”

Making a clarion call upon the Myanmar authorities to immediately halt the genocide, Khaleda said, “Don’t let even a single man be killed or fall victim of eviction and repression.”

The BNP chairperson called on all conscientious people around the globe as well of the country to stand beside the “persecuted Rohingya community against the genocide.”

She called upon all the humanistic governments, the Muslim world in particular, and all international organisations including the United Nations and the OIC to come forward with “strong measures, not merely uttering words, to protect the Rohingyas so that the Myanmar government is forced to stop the genocide.”

The former prime minister also called on the Bangladesh authorities to give the persecuted Rohingya community shelter as much as possible.

“Many Rohingya refugees have already taken shelter in this densely populated country where housing lands are decreasing continuously and we are facing many social problems for this as well. Despite that, as a nation which got the liberation fighting a war against genocide, I am urging the authorities to shelter Rohingyas as much as possible for humanistic reason.”

Khaleda further called on other neighbouring countries to shelter the Rohingyas from the persecution.

“At the same time, I want to say it loud and clear that only providing the refugees shelter and succours will not solve the problem. Bangladesh and the states concerned should take strong diplomatic initiative so that the Rohingyas can live in their motherland with full citizen right and with safety and security of life and property after their return to the country permanently.”