2015-01-09 21:04:00+06:00
BJP urges Mamata to 'clarify' on Jamaat links
India's ruling BJP demanded a clarification from West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee about the alleged link between one of her party MPs and the Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami before she embarks on Bangladesh visit, reports an Indian media.

State BJP in-charge Siddharth Nath Singh on Thursday said, “We demand that Mamata should first clarify about the link between her party MP Ahmed Hassan aka Imran and the Jamaat before she sets foot on Bangladesh."

"Bangladeshi intelligence and media, even Indian intelligence and media, have reported about funds being transferred to Bangladesh for terror activities there and in India too,” the New Indian Express quoted him as saying.

“Imran has links with several Jamaat Bangladesh leaders including Shaukat, who was a mastermind behind the serial blasts there in 2005. Will Mamata clarify Imran’s role in sending funds for promoting terror in Bangladesh?” he asked.

The chief minister has been invited by the Awami League government in Dhaka to take part in functions regarding the “Bhasha Dibas” (Language Day) on February 21, and she will leave on a four-day visit to Dhaka on February 19.

Singh alleged that around 75 crore had changed hands between some politicians in West Bengal and the Jamaat in Bangladesh during the last two years, the report said.

Regarding the Global Bengal Business Summit, which Mamata claimed to have attracted investments worth Rs 93,000 crore on the first day itself, Singh commented, “It should be named Centre Aid Summit, as Rs 78,700 crore were Central projects. Nothing global could be seen there.”

He said the BJP also found serious financial fraud in the TMC’s declaration to the Election Commission about donations received and would complain about it, the New Indian Express added.

Singh said, “A company whose earnings for the last three years were in thousands had donated 1.4 crore to the TMC before the elections. I have the audited balance sheet of that company, and nowhere does it show such a donation though the declaration signed by TMC national secretary Mukul Roy MP and submitted to the poll panel stated such an amount received from that company.”

“According to the Companies Act, it is illegal if such an amount was paid, and we will demand a probe into such a financial fraud,” he said.