2014-03-31 21:29:00+06:00
BNP-Jamaat hartal in 3 upazilas and Barguna
Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) and Jamaat-e-Islami favoured upazila electoral candidates called hartal in several upazilas and in a district town, protesting at massive fraud by ruling party supporters.

The candidates, contesting at the 5th phase of upazila council elections, also boycotted elections.

They called half-day hartal at Kasba of Brahmanbaria and Shahzadpur of Sirajganj, and dawn-to-dusk hartal at Araihazar of Narayanganj and in the Barguna district, protesting at vote rigging, capturing polling centres, snatching ballot boxes and papers at the polls.

Kasba

Kasba upazila BNP called half-day hartal on Tuesday protesting at vote rigging. Upazila BNP president and municipality mayor Mohammad Ilias announced the programme. BNP favour candidate Md Iqbal Azam and Jatiya Party favour candidate chairman Tareque Ahammad Adel boycotted the polls at about 12 noon in protest at vote rigging and capturing 54 polling centres.

Sirajganj

Shahzadpur upazila BNP called half-day hartal on Tuesday protesting at vote rigging, ballot stuffing and kicking out agents from the centres. BNP announced hartal at a press briefing at about 3:30pm.

Narayanganj

Candidate called dawn to dusk hartal for Tuesday at Araihazar upazila in Narayanganj. BNP-backed candidate Gazi MA Masud and AL rebel woman vice-chairman candidate Parveen Akter pressed written allegation to district returning officer as AL lawmaker Nazrul Islam canvassed for AL favour candidate Shahjalal Miah. They also boycotted the polls.

Barguna

Barguna district unit BNP called dawn to dusk hartal for Tuesday in the district protesting at vote rigging at four upazilas. Barguna district unit BNP president SM Nazrul Islam announced the programme today evening.

Feni

BNP-led alliance called hartal on Tuesday in Chagalnaiya upazila of Feni protesting centres captured and vote fraud.

Chuadanga

Candidates called a half-day hartal in Chuadanga sadar and Alamdanga upazilas protesting various irregularities during the elections on Monday.

District BNP joint general secretary Waheduzzaman Bula announced the hartal programme.

Earlier, BNP and Jamaat supported candidates boycotted the polls through a press conference at about 10:00am alleging that supporters of the ruling party-backed candidates cast fake vote after capturing the

polling centres on Sunday night.