2014-04-03 11:38:00+06:00
53% vote fraud in 5th phase of upazila polls
Election Working Group (EWG), a combined platform of election observers in Bangladesh, said that massive electoral fraud and violence marked the fifth stage of upazila council polls.



"While 53% votes were rigged in the fifth phase of the upazila council polls, 50% polling centres witnessed violence, 76% voters were intimidated, 65% was violation of campaign law, 20% were denied to vote by other actors, 59% polling agents were removed from poll stations and 38% EWG observers not allowed to observe counting procedure," said EWG.



The findings were revealed at a press conference organised by the EWG at the Jatiya Press Club in Dhaka. The EWG observed 34 upazila parishads out of 73 in the fifth stage of upazila council polls.

The EWG also said the mean average voter turnout figure in polling stations was 63.7%. However, it is concerned that the figure does not reflect the actual turnout, as ballot stuffing was rampant on poll day.

Among others, EWG director, Abdul Alim, EWG member, Nazmul Ahsan Kalimullah were present at the conference.

Nazmul Ahsan Kalimullah, said, "The first phase of polls was held almost peacefully, but violence erupted in the second phase and increased in the third phase. New techniques were adopted for vote engineering and violence in the fourth phase. Although violence reduced in the fifth phase, vote rigging was higher."

“Thirteen supporters of a candidate entered the polling booth in Belkuchi Upazila, seized a significant number of ballot papers, stamped and stuffed those in the ballot box. Personnel of the law enforcement agency present at the site did not take any action against the perpetrators,” he alleged by way of citing an example.

Referring to examples of how voters were disenfranchised at Laksmipur Sadar, Satkhira Sadar, Tangail Sadar Upazilas, he said that indelible ink was applied to the fingers of voters waiting in line and when they proceeded towards the polling booth they were told they were ineligible to vote as they already had their fingers marked.

EWG director Abdul Alim said that violence in the fifth phase was less than the fourth phase, but irregularities were much more. “The ballot boxes were stuffed with ballots in advance and the polling officials were forced to publish figures as directed. The country never witnessed such practice before,” he said.