2016-03-01 20:41:00+06:00
50 names disclosed over ATM card forgery: Police
Four people, including foreign national Piotr Szczepan Mazurek, who were arrested in connection with the recent ATM card forgery, revealed the names of 40-50 individuals and organisations involved in the crime, reports UNB news agency.



Mazurek alias Thomas and three city bank officials -- Moksed Al alias Maksud, Rezaul Karim alias Sahin and Refaz Ahmed alias Rony-- disclosed the names of 40-50 bankers, restaurants and travel agency owners and businessmen during interrogation under fresh police remand, said DMP Additional Commissioner Monirul Islam at a press briefing at the DMP media centre on Tuesday.



Though Thomas claimed that he is a Polish national but German authorities confirmed that he is German national, said Monirul Islam, also the head of Counter Terrorism and Transnational Crime (CTTC) unit of DMP.



He said detectives are verifying the names revealed by the arrestees. “If we find their involvement in the crime, we’ll take legal action,” Monirul said.

He said the detectives have already interrogated three more suspects in connection with the incident and a process is underway to arrest other culprits.



Replying to a question, Monirul Islam said the arrested Piotr revealed that he along with other members of an international forgery syndicate had already isappropriated a several crores of taka.



Detectives arrested the foreign national along with the three city bank officials from Gulsan area of the city on 22 February in connection with ATM card forgery.



A Dhaka court on the same day placed them on a 6-day remand each after they were produced before the court. Later, they were put on a five-day fresh on 29 February.



The ATM card forgery was carried out through a nexus of the members of an international fraud syndicate, bank officials and traders, the CTTC head added.



On 12 February, the authorities of the United Commercial Bank (UCB) filed a case with Banani Police station as Tk 1.26 lakh was misappropriated through ATM card forgery. Later, the case was transferred to DB police.



On 13 February, the Bangladesh Bank asked several banks to block around 200 ATM cards believed to have been read by “skimming devices” during 7 to 9 February.



