2017-03-14 17:33:00+06:00
Int’l police confce ends with 17-point Dhaka Declaration
The three-day international police conference ended in Dhaka today (Tuesday) with adoption of a 17-point Dhaka Declaration including a call for intensifying cooperation among the nations of the region to combat transnational crimes and extremism.

“As many as 14 countries and four international organisations, who took part in the conference, adopted a 17-point Joint declaration aiming at curbing transnational crimes and extremism in the region,” Inspector General of Police AKM Shahidul Hoque told a “meet the press” after the closing session of the Chiefs of Police Conference of South Asia and Neighboring Countries.

The conference on ‘Regional Co-operation in Curbing Violent Extremism and Transnational Crime’ drew police chiefs and representatives of 14 countries of the region and beyond, hosted by Bangladesh Police and the INTERPOL.

The Dhaka Declaration stresses on efficiently dealing with the regional challenges of violent extremism and transnational organised crimes through cross border cooperation among all police organisations in South Asia and its neighboring countries.

Shahidul Hoque said the 17-point declaration included devising a common strategy to combat transnational crimes and violent extremism and establishing one to one communication through the National Central Bureau (NCB) of Interpol member states.

“The main features of the Dhaka declaration include working together to identify the recent trend of crimes that pose immense threats to this region and the world and from a common platform to enhance cooperation among the chiefs of police of the region,” he said.

The IGP said the declaration comprises promoting exchange of information to curb terrorism and transnational crimes effectively in order to strengthen the counterterrorism capabilities, developing and strengthening partnerships among law enforcement agencies of the countries and organizations.

“We will create professional network and strategic alliance among law enforcement agencies and leading organizations of the world and promote cooperation among respective investigators and prosecuting offenders involved in terrorism and transnational crimes,” he said.

Other main aspects of the declaration, as Hoque said, include establishing IT (information technology) network with the countries to share information to curb violent extremism and transnational crimes and promoting cooperation among forensic science laboratories and training institutions in the region. “We will strengthen cooperation to enhance capabilities to act against money laundering, cybercrime and financial crime as stated in the Dhaka Declaration,” he said.

The police chief said he held bilateral talks the police chiefs of Myanmar, Afghanistan, South Korea, China, Brunei, Vietnam, Indonesia and Malaysia. Of them, he said, the Myanmar, South Korea, China and Malaysia police chiefs agreed to sign Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) with the Bangladesh Police aimed at curbing transnational crimes.

“Agreement between Bangladesh and Myanmar to prevent burning issues including human trafficking and drug smuggling is very important and the Myanmar Ambassador in Dhaka gave his consent on police cooperation in this regard between the two countries,” he added.

AKM Shahidul Hoque said, “I talked to the Facebook authorities and conveyed our concerns about the spread of propaganda on militancy, luring youths towards militancy, communal instigation and hurting religious sentiment through facebook and other social media.”

The Facebook authorities informed that their policy does not allow to sign MoU with a country but they assured of cooperating Bangladesh in this regard, he said.

Earlier, State Minister for Foreign Affairs M Shahriar Alam formally concluded the conference as the chief guest saying that it opened the potential avenues of the engagement in various fields of law enforcement.

“In the last couple of years, we have seen rise of terrorism and militancy in global plain, we need to stay alert and vigilant so that we do not fall victim to global terror networks,” he said, adding that “There can be spill-over effects of IS’s ongoing terrorist activities in the Middle East and other places, disturbing peace and security of our countries.

As far as Bangladesh is concerned, there is no existence of Islamic State (IS) and other international terror outfits in the country.” The state minister said that home grown militants carried out recent attacks in the country, adding, “There is no evidence till date to support the claim that they (Militants) had links with IS or other global outfits.”

A total of 58 foreign representatives, including Interpol Secretary General Jurgen Stock and police chiefs from Afghanistan, Sri Lanka, Myanmar and Malaysia attended the three-day conference.

Officials from Interpol, Facebook, US IGCI, FBI, ASEANpol and ICITAP and other international organizations also participated in it.