2017-01-18 22:27:00+06:00
ACC to net down corrupts in 15 govt agencies
The Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC) has formed 14 teams to investigate how and why corruption is being committed at 15 major government institutions.

The ACC authorities have taken the initiative as corrupt practices have been found rampant at some goverment offices.

The anti-corruption watchdog believes that corruption might have taken place there due to legal loopholes and enforcement weakness, depriving the people of services they deserve.

Sources in the ACC said many government institutions have already become known to the commoners as key spots of corruption.

The ACC received various allegations relating to such reality from the victims, the sources added.

The ACC took the decision days after ACC chairman Iqbal Mahmud said his institution will have close watch over the corruption-prone departments of the government.

[Corrupt officers to be trapped: ACC boss]

He then said the special surveillance will start soon.

The ACC chief on Wednesday said the commission issued an order detailing scopes of works in this regard.

Transparency International Bangladesh (TIB) executive director Iftekharuzzaman appreciated the move. He told Prothom Alo that positive outcomes may come out through this initiative.

The ACC said the probe teams will submit a report detaining regulatory situation in those institutions so that corruption could be checked in future.

The ACC aims to unearth the sources of corruption at the institutions and why people fall victim of corruption there, the sources added.

The targeted government institutions are: the Controller General of Accounts' office, the Bangladesh Civil Aviation Authority, the Bangladesh Biman, Bangladesh Road Transport Authority, the customs and VAT excise office, the income tax department, the Department of Public Works, the Department of Roads and Highways, the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority, the Dhaka WASA, the Department of Narcotics Control, the Bangladesh Railway, the Titas Gas Transmission and Distribution Company and the Dhaka city sub-registry office.

[ACC not toothless: Chairman]

Eight directors of the ACC will guide the teams. The ACC’s director general will keep in touch with teams, as well.

Earlier in 2012, the ACC formed 11 teams led by the 11 deputy directors to unearth corruption at 11 government institutions.

Subsequently, the ACC probe teams conducted a intensive investigations at the institutions and filed many cases.

Later, the probe bodies were disbanded in the face of various allegations.

* This report, originally published in Bangla, was rewritten in English by Toriqul Islam.