2015-12-09 01:42:00+06:00
ACC gets no info about ruling party men!
The Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC) dropped graft charges against more than 200 ruling party politicians and influential people in the government in the last five years.

All of them were charged with corruption during the military-led caretaker government. However, no opposition politician has, so far, had the luxury of enjoying ACC clean chit.

When asked about this, ACC chairman M Badiuzzaman told Prothom Alo that the commission does not spare anyone if it finds specific evidence of corruption against him or her. It bows to none.

According to ACC sources, the AL-led grand alliance government in 2009 sent a list of 337 persons to the commission, to clear their graft charges considering these to be ‘political harassment’. These 337 persons are either ruling party leaders or influential persons in the government.

All of them were cleared of their charges, due to the charges being ‘baseless’, unavailability of investigation reports against them and clearance on ‘moral grounds’.

However, an Appellate Division bench led-by chief justice Surendra Kumar Sinha on 12 January expressed surprise at ACC’s decision not to carry out a case against independent member of parliament Haji Selim. While delivering an order, the chief justice said the court gets confused if anyone decides not to continue the case in the middle of the hearing.

ACC panel lawyer Khurshid Alam Khan told Prothom Alo that the legal interpretation on which the Appellate Division took the decision was very transparent.

Though the ruling party politicians are being cleared of ACC charges one after another, the commission is staying strong against the opposition leaders.

The ACC asked Liberal Democratic Party president Oli Ahmed to submit his wealth statement. While submitting the statement last year, Oli told newsmen that he turned up to the ACC as he turned down the offer to become a minister.

BNP leaders who are fighting against ACC charges include Moudud Ahmed, and his expatriate brother Manzur Ahmed, Khandaker Mosharraf Hossain, Sadeque Hossain Khoka, Zamir Uddin Sircar, M Morshed Khan, Ali Asgar Lobby and his family members, Mosaddek Ali Falu, Ehsanul Haque, AKM Mosharraf Hossain, Iqbal Hasan Mahmud and his family members.

BNP chairperson Khaleda Zia and her elder son Tarique Rahman also face ACC charges.

The commission brought back the money that the BNP chairperson’s younger son late Arafat Rahman Koko allegedly siphoned off to Singapore.

ACC received over 0.3 million complaints from 2007 to September, 2015. Of them, 22,000 complaints were probed and 4,000 cases were filed by the ACC. Through these procedures, the commission has cleared 18, 039 persons from graft charges. Among them, number of ruling party leaders and businessmen is 697, influential people 15,011 and at least 3,000 public servants.

In the meantime, the commission submitted 1,131 charge sheets to courts. The ACC cleared 861 ruling party leaders and businessmen, failing to prove crimes against them.

Executive director of Transparency International Bangladesh (TIB) Iftekharuzzaman told Prothom Alo it is only natural that questions will be raised about ACC’s professionalism, as it has already issued so many clean chits.

ACC sources said Syed Modasser Ali, an adviser to the prime minister, allegedly influenced Sonali Bank authorities into unlawfully granting a huge loan to the controversial Hall Mark Group. But, Modasser Ali’s name was dropped from ACC probe at the outset.

The commission exonerated former chairman of BASIC Bank Abdul Hye Bacchu from charges of 56 cases filed for the embezzlement of the bank money.

The commission cleared Hossain Monsur of corruption and irregularity charges over the recruitment in the Karnaphuli Gas Field Company Limited.

The ACC launched a probe into allegations of illegally amassing wealth by the assistant private secretary of former state minister for religious affairs Shahjahan Miah, dropping the minister’s name.

Moreover, many businessmen, government officials and others have recently received ACC clean chits including former chairman Golam Hossain of National Board of Revenue, Dhaka Wasa managing director Taksim A Khan, Ananda Shipyard proprietor Abdullahhil Bari, Chittagong Development Authority chairman Abdus Salam, former Rajuk chairman Nurul Huda, IG (protection) of police special branch Rafiqul Islam and former police superintendent of Bagerhat district Mizanur Rahman, among others.