2016-08-16 21:26:00+06:00
No magnanimity in abandoning Khaleda’s birthday celebrations: PM
Prime minister Sheikh Hasina on Tuesday said there is no political magnanimity in abandoning Khaleda Zia’s birthday celebrations on 15 August as the real reason lies elsewhere.

"As her younger son Koko was born in August, she (Khaleda) cannot celebrate his birthday since he is dead now. So, she’s not celebrating her birthday on 15 August…this is the reality," said the prime minister while addressing a reminiscence meeting arranged by Bangladesh Awami League (AL) at Krishibid Institution, Bangladesh here, marking the National Mourning Day.

Also the AL chief, Hasina said if anyone thinks Khaleda is not celebrating her birthday on 15 August to show her political magnanimity that person makes a mistake. "Some leaders of her party are trying to establish that, but that’s not correct," she said.

Hasina said she came to know yesterday (Monday) that Khaleda would not celebrate her birthday. "It’s not her birthday at all, she just does that to hurt us as on this day we mourn as we lost parents, brothers…pain grips us on this day, while another person (Khaleda) celebrates her birthday by cutting cakes."

The prime minister also said some people look overenthusiastic to prove she did not celebrate her birthday out of political magnanimity. "But, I know the fact …a mother cannot celebrate her fake birthday in the month in which her dead son was born. What will she do being a mother? More importantly, this is not her real birthday" Hasina alleged.

The ruling AL chief mentioned that the life sketch that was published when Khaleda became the prime minister did not mention 15 August as her birth date. "Just to undermine Bangabandhu and hurt us, she (Khaleda) selected this date for celebrating this fake birthday and she gave a signal to the killers of Bangabandhu that she is with the killers as another killer."

Briefly describing the miserable days after the assassination of Bangabandhu and his family members, Hasina said the national and international forces who had never wanted Bangladesh to emerge an independent nation are behind the conspiracy of this killing.

"They want to destroy the spirit and ideology of the liberation war forever.”

After losing all, Hasina said, now it is her desire of her life to materialise the dream of Bangladesh’s founding father Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.