2016-06-15 20:01:00+06:00
Nasim confident of 14-party unity
Spokesperson of the 14-party alliance Mohammed Nasim on Wednesday said the combine will be expanded further in future.

“The 14-party alliance will be expanded further as well as our unity. There’s no alternative to it. Or else, the evil force, taking the advantage of the division, will pierce us,” he said.

Nasim, also health minister and a presidium member of the ruling party, was addressing a joint meeting of Awami League Dhaka city units (North and South) at its Bangabandhu Avenue office in the city, reports UNB news agency.

The meeting was convened in the run-up to the 14-party’s human chain programmes to be held on June 19 across the country protesting recent secret killings.

The combine was formed not only to share power or participate in election together but also to build a non-communal Bangladesh, Nasim said, adding that its unity remains intact and will remain so under the leadership of Sheikh Hasina until the goals are achieved.

About the recent comment of AL general secretary Syed Ashraful Islam about Jatiya Samajtantrik Dal (JASAD), a component of the alliance, the ruling party leader described Sheikh Hasina as the alliance’s main leader. “She is the symbol of the 14-party’s unity. The alliance was formed following her inspiration,” he said.

At a programme of Bangladesh Chhatra League at Dhaka University on Monday, Syed Ashraful Islam alleged that JASAD created the grounds for the assassination of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.

“Jasod had misguided people about the spirit of the Liberation War in the name of scientific socialism and tried to make independence controversial,” he had said.

At the joint meeting, Awami League joint general secretary Mahbub-ul-Alam Hanif said the 14-party alliance will face the conspiracy of BNP Chairperson Khaleda Zia in a united manner.

Food minister Qamrul Islam, among others, spoke at the meeting held with Awami League Dhaka city South city unit general secretary Shahe Alam Murad in the chair.