2015-08-11 22:07:00+06:00
Ashraf warns of forces opposed to Hasina’s welfar
The ruling Awami League general secretary and the public administration minister, Syed Ashraful Islam, on Tuesday warned there are many forces who don’t want the welfare of prime minister Sheikh Hasina, UNB news agency reported.

Noting that the Father of Nation and his whole family were killed as part of a deep conspiracy, “They remain active till now …this is why I get apprehended sometimes. There are many forces who don’t want welfare of public leader Sheikh Hasina.”

Ashraf was addressing a discussion arranged by Awami Swechchhasebak League on the premises of the Bangabandhu Memorial Museum in the city’s Dhanmondhi 32 ahead of the National Mourning Day on August 15.

Asking political leaders to stop politics of making money, the AL general secretary said, “You’ll get the taste of power in the future as well. Politics of making money is everywhere. Stop these things that undermine the party and the Prime Minister.”

He said Bangabandhu was killed as an environment of killings had been created earlier.

Ashraf urged his party men to remain alert and united, saying, “Such a big party (AL) could not protect him (Bangabandhu). Now how much we’re prepared to prevent such incident.”

He said the premiers of various countries became victims of assassination, but Bangabandhu, his wife and family members were killed. “This barbarity knew no bounds… Weren’t there fellows of Bangabandhu, our army, navy, air force, our political party, Chhatra League, Awami League there? Where had they been?”

The AL general secretary also urged the party men to strengthen the party and take preparations for the next general election.

Presided by Swecchasebak League President Mollah Md Abu Kawser, the discussion was addressed, among others, by AL organizing secretary AFM Bahauddin Nasim MP, President of Bangladesh Federal Union of Journalist Monzurul Ahsan Bulbul, Dhaka University Professor Dr Biswajit Gosh and Swecchasebak League general secretary Pankaj Nath MP.