2015-06-25 19:37:00+06:00
Hasina’s “hard-won anti-extremism”
When Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Dhaka in June, he praised prime minister Sheikh Hasina “as a formidable force in fighting regional and global terrorism while working to build a tolerant, secular country free of extremism”, writes Bangladesh ambassador to the US Mohammad Ziauddin.

In an article published in Washington Times on 23 June, he noted, “These are more than planks in a political platform. They are core beliefs written in family blood.”

Referring to the 1975 coup that killed Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 18 other family members, the ambassador pointed out that the tragedy galvanized Hasina and set her on a course to carry out her father’s unfinished business: creating a vibrant, democratic Bangladesh.

“Ms. Hasina has been a target of those who want Bangladesh to be a backward, stunted theocracy. She has survived a remarkable 19 assassination attempts including a 2005 grenade attack at a rally that killed 24 and injured another 500. She has been jailed and twice exiled by political foes,” Ziauddin listed.

This is why, he argued, she has a zero-tolerance policy against extremism. “Under Ms. Hasina, Bangladesh has worked with regional allies and the US to prevent the country from becoming a breeding ground for terror.”

The ambassador mentioned that India and the U.S. value Bangladesh as a partner in stability in an increasingly violent world.

Ziauddin wrote, Bangladesh’s chief opposition, the Bangladesh Nationalist Party, has found that its ideas have failed in the country’s political marketplace. So, he argued, it has turned to political disruption, boycotting the 2014 national election and pulling out of city elections this year.

The ambassador mentioned that Sheikh Hasina’s government continues to carry out the necessary work of the war crimes tribunals and refuses to back down to the forces of evil. “This is why Forbes magazine recently placed Hasina among the 100 most powerful women including heads of state in Germany, Brazil, South Korea, Chile and Poland,” he added.

“Each of these women is accomplished in her own right, but only the Prime Minister of Bangladesh struggles daily against armed domestic forces that seek to terrorise her population and bring down her government,” he concluded.