2014-04-29 16:42:00+06:00
PM calls for more German investment




Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Tuesday called for more German investment to Bangladesh saying that the country has a very nice investment-friendly policy.

Sheikh Hasina sought cooperation from German government, its people and political leaders as in the past to expedite her government’s relentless efforts to ensure a better life for its people.

The prime minister made the request when a five-member German parliamentary delegation, led by Dagmar G Wohrl, met her at her office.

PM’s special assistant Mahbubul Hoque Shakil briefed reporters after the meeting.

Hasina said the government is working hard to establish a poverty- and hunger-free country where there will be no illiteracy, terrorism and militancy.

In this connection, the prime minister said after assuming office in 2009 the government had to fight against global recession on one hand while against militancy and terrorism on the other. “But we have been able to put the country’s economy on a solid ground.”

She also mentioned that the poverty rate has come down to 26% from over 40% as the government massively expanded the social safety net programme.

The prime minister recalled the friendly relations between Bangladesh and Germany after Bangladesh’s independence.

In this connection she said that Germany, just after the independence of Bangladesh, helped the country implement various initiatives taken by Father of the Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.

Recalling her days in Germany after the assassination of Bangabandhu, Hasina said she has a relation of emotion with Germany.

Dagmar G Wohrl appreciated the advancement of Bangladesh in various sectors.

She said that their government would help Bangladesh face the challenges in achieving the status of middle-income country by 2021, and appreciated Bangladesh’s performance in attaining the MDGs.

Dagmar G Wohrl said Germany and Bangladesh have long lasting social, economic and political relationships.

Ambassador at-Large M Ziauddin, principal secretary Abdus Sobhan Sikdar, media adviser to the prime minister Iqbal Sobhan Chowdhury and German ambassador to Bangladesh Albrecht Conze were, among others, present.