2014-05-17 21:09:00+06:00
Zia wanted to erase AL's name: Hasina
Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Saturday said that Ziaur Rahman wanted to erase the name of Awami League after the brutal assassination of Bangabandhu as he (Zia) considered the party his main enemy.

She said that military dictator General Zia was appointed army chief by Khandakar Moshtaque and he was made the president and army chief simultaneously as he forced the then president Justice ASM Sayem to step down at gunpoint.

"After becoming president, General Zia wanted to destroy the signs and spirit of the War of Liberation side by side with erasing the name of Awami League," she said, adding the anti-liberation forces emerged during his misrule.

Sheikh Hasina, also the Awami League president, told leaders of Awami League and its associate bodies who came to her Ganobhaban residence on the occasion of her 33rd Homecoming Day.

Senior Awami League leaders including Syeda Sajeda Chowdhury, Begum Matia Chowdhury, Obaidul Quader, Sheikh Fazlul Karim Selim, advocate Sahara Khatun, Syed Ashraful Islam and prime minister's advisor HT Imam were present, among others.

On this day in 1981, Sheikh Hasina returned home after six years in exile following the brutal assassination of the architect of independent Bangladesh Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and most of his family members on 15 August 1975.

Hasina and her younger sister Sheikh Rehana escaped the carnage as they were in Germany at that time.

The prime minister said General Zia grabbed the state power by violating the constitution. "The country witnessed frequent coups during his rule and he killed sector commanders of the War of Liberation one after another," she said.

Earlier, the leaders of Bangladesh Awami League and its associate bodies greeted the Prime Minister by presenting bouquets and chanting slogans on the occasion of the Homecoming Day.

In an emotion-charged voice, the Prime Minister said after the assassination of Bangabandhu, four national leaders were brutally killed and numerous leaders and workers of the party were thrown into jail to eliminate Awami League.

Recalling her Homecoming Day on May 17 in 1981, Sheikh Hasina said she returned home on a rainy and stormy day when thousands of people braving the inclement weather assembled at the airport to welcome her.

"When I returned home I didn't have any asset except the courage and inspiration of the Awami League leaders and workers," she said.

"When I returned home, there was a flood of millions of people and there was love for me. But my most beloved persons whose love I expected most were not there," she said referring to the killing of Bangabandhu and others who were assassinated on the fateful night of 15 August.

While recalling her tragic and terrible days, the Prime Minister became emotional and tears rolled down her cheek.

Hasina said General Zia ran the country by imposing curfew at night. "Rehana and I were not allowed to enter our historic Dhanmondi 32 residence. We were even barred to hold milad at our house," she said.

The prime minister said they used to spend time on the bank of Dhanmondi Lake. "The sufferers could only say what frightful days we passed at that time," she said.

After my coming back home, my number one thought was to put the country back on the path of democracy along with materializing the dream of Bangabandhu and strengthening the party. "I could not think where we would stay and what we would eat," she said.

Hasina said when she returned home she saw that the country went against the War of Liberation and the anti-liberation forces were running Bangladesh under the patronization of General Zia.

The prime minister said she never wanted to become the chief of Awami League. But I always gave advice to keep the party united. "I didn't feel good when I was made president of the party in 1981," she said.

Hasina said: "General Zia had tried so that I could not return home. But I came back home despite many obstructions."

She said she feels proud of being the daughter of the Father of the Nation. "I need no other identity than being the daughter of Bangabandhu," she said.

The prime minister said Almighty Allah has sent every person to the world to accomplish some tasks. "I also want to perform the responsibilities that the Almighty has given. And Allah will protect me until the works are done," she said.

Sheikh Hasina said Bangabandhu sacrificed his life for the Bangalee nation and their development and changing their lot.

"I have nothing to get, I want to continue to work for the welfare of the people and I want to remain beside them during their weal and woes," she said.

The prime minister said Bangabandhu had dreamt of bringing smile on the faces of the distressed people. "I won't bow to anybody except Allah to fulfill the dream and I would move forward by keeping my head high."