2016-05-03 19:22:00+06:00
Religious freedom violated in Bangladesh: USCIRF
Extremists killed, threatened, assaulted, harassed, and intimidated religious minorities and self-described atheists or secularist bloggers in 2015, says the annual report of the US Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF).



The USCIRF released its annual report for the year 2016 that hardly paints a flattering picture of Bangladesh.



"While the government has taken steps to investigate, arrest, and prosecute perpetrators of violent attacks or threats, and has increased protection for likely targets, religious and civil society groups fear that increasing religious extremism will result in future threats and attacks.



In addition, illegal land appropriations, commonly referred to as land-grabbing, and ownership disputes remain widespread, with religious minorities, especially Hindus and Christians, being particularly vulnerable," read the report.



Other concerns include the implementation of the Chittagong Hill Tracts Accord and the situation of Rohingya Muslims.



In 2015, four Bangladeshis - Washiqur Rahman Babu, Ananta Bijoy Das, Niloy Chatterjee, and Faisal Arefin Dipan - and one Bangladeshi-American, Avijit Roy, were assassinated for their writings on secularism and freedom of thought, religious and communal tolerance, and political transparency and accountability.

Groups such as Al Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), Ansar al Islam,and Ansarullah Bangla Team (ABT) claimed responsibility.



According to the government, over 30 people have been arrested for the murders of Roy, Bijoy Das, Babu, and Chatterjee. Additionally, on December 31, 2015, two men were sentenced to death and six others to prison for the 2013 murder of blogger Ahmed Rajib Haider.



Due to threats made against them, including in “Hit Lists” of individuals targeted for assassination widely available on the internet, dozens of individuals have either fled the country or their areas of residence.



In March 2015, a USCIRF staff member travelled to Bangladesh to assess the religious freedom situation.