2015-08-15 08:47:00+06:00
13 killed in Md’pur attack on 15 Aug’75; case pending
Mohammad Ali was only 24 when he came under attack of a rocket launcher in the capital’s Mohammadpur area on 15 August 1975, during the assassination of Father of the Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.



On this day 40 years ago, a total of 13 innocent people were killed and another 17 wounded in an assault by rocket launchers on that dark night of history when Bangabandhu was assassinated.



None faced any trial even after two decades of the incident.



In 1996, freedom fighter Mohammad Ali filed a case with the Mohammadpur police station but justice is yet to be ensured due to lack of witnesses. The case is now hanging in limbo due to the absence of witnesses in the court.



This correspondent talked to Mohammad Ali on Thursday at his house in Savar.

Three rocket shells hit houses number 8, 9, 6 and 20 at Shershah Suri Road and houses number 196 and 197 at Shahjahan Road in Mohammadpur in the early hours of 15 August, 1975, killing 13 people and injuring another 17.

Mohammad Ali used to reside in house number 8 at Shershah Suri Road. He and several members of his family received splinter injuries in the explosions.

Recalling 15 August, Mohammad Ali said, “I woke up to the blasting sound of explosions and was wounded in my thigh. I bound the wound with a cloth went next door to check what had happened. I came across a massacre there; blood, flesh and brains were scattered everywhere.”

“The body of Habibur Rahman, an official of the statistics department, was lying lifeless on the ground. The right part of Yunus Raddi’s body was blown away and Rizia Begum’s brains were hanging on the fence. Local people rushed the injured to the Suhrawardy hospital. I was given first aid by a nurse,” he added.

Mohammad Ali said he had gone to the Mohammadpur police station to file a case over the attack.

“I asked the officer-in-charge to file a case. He told me that he did not know who is running the country now and so cannot take the case in this situation,” he said.

“Plain-clothed army officials started patrolling the neighbourhood in the evening. I left the place fearing the upcoming situation. After that, we did not introduce ourselves as freedom fighters or mention the rocket attack on 15 August, 1975,” he added.

Mohammad Ali filed a case in 1996 for the 15 August incident when the Awami League government came to power after 21 years and scrapped a notorious indemnity law which protected the Bangabandhu killers from justice.

Abdur Rab, maternal uncle of Mohammad Ali who was seriously wounded at the 15 August attack, still lives in the Shershah Suri Road residence.

“A total of 35 to 40 people used to reside there in 10 to 12 houses. The rent of each house was Tk 15. As many as 17 bullet holes were found in the door of my house,” said Abdur Rab.

Police submitted a charge-sheet of 18 people over the case filed in 1996. Among the 18, five—Syed Farooq Rahman, Sultan Shahriar Rashid Khan, Bazlul Huda, AKM Mohiuddin Ahmed, and Mohiuddin Ahmed—were hanged in 2010 in the Bangabandhu assassination case. When asked why the case is still pending even after 14 years of charge-sheet submission, public prosecutor of Dhaka metropolitan session judge court Abdullah Abu said, “Only four witnesses recorded their statements in the case. The case is pending due to lack of witnesses.”