2015-08-02 19:00:00+06:00
Police yet to nab BCL men over teacher assault
Police are yet to arrest the offenders who on Thursday beat a teacher of Khulna Government Brajalal (BL) College.

Daulatpur police officer-in-charge Shafiqul Islam told Prothom Alo police conducted a drive to arrest the offenders, but failed to detain them as they were on the run.

BL college principal Gulshan Ara Begum said the college teacher association has threatened to boycott classes if the offenders are not arrested by Monday.

On Saturday, BCS Sadharan Shikkhak Samity of the college threatened a strike if the perpetrators were not arrested by Sunday.

The BCS teacher platform will sit on Sunday evening to decide whether the teachers will boycott classes or not.

Khulna city BCL suspended six leaders and activists of the college unit over the incident of assault.

The suspended are college unit BCL joint convener Ujjal, activists Abdullah, Deepankar, Didar, Toriqul, and Emran.

The city BCL formed a seven-member probe committee over the issue. The student wing of the ruling party asked the committee to submit an investigative report in seven days.

Members of the BCL on Thursday beat an assistant professor of the political science department of the college yesterday afternoon (Thursday).

Later, the BL college chairman of the political science department, professor Moniruzzaman, filed a case against the BCL activists Deepankar, Ujjal, Didar, and 15 unidentified people over the incident.

The victim said he asked a fourth-year student Deepankar to meet him at the department to correct the name of his supervisor in an examination paper as he wrote the name wrong.

Deepankar made a phone call to the vice president of the Khulna city BCL unit Ujjal Hossain, instead of meeting the teacher. The teacher then asked both to meet him at the department.

Ujjal, also the BL college BCL unit convener, misbehaved with the teacher and later assaulted him with his cohorts at the department.

At one stage, the teacher took shelter at department chairperson’s room.

The BCL men then vandalised chairs, tables and other furniture in the room.