2017-03-02 17:42:00+06:00
NSU students call off demo after assurance
The students of North South University (NSU) have called off their street agitation over the assault on a fellow student by security guards after assurance that the attackers behind the offense will be brought to book.

The decision came from a meeting among the authorities of Bashundhara Group, the administrative body of the NSU and the representatives of general students around 1:00pm on Thursday, reports UNB news agency.

The NSU students took to the street protesting at the assault on their fellow student NSU student Snehasish Shuvo by security guards at Bashundhara Residential Area in Dhaka on Wednesday night.

Confirming the news, NSU student Snehasish Shuvo, told the UNB, “We called off our protest as the authorities of Bashundhara Group have assured us of meeting our nine-point demands."

“The demands include compensation for Shahriar Hasnat Tapu, a BBA sixth semester student, who was assaulted and now is being treated at Apollo Hospital and immediate arrest of the security guard of Bashundhara Group, who assaulted him,” he added.

Shuvo also said, “The authorities also assured as that they will suspend 15 other security guards, who were also involved in the offense.”

Tayebur Rahman Rabbi, a ninth semester BBA student of the NUS, said: “ the incident took place when Tapu and another student got involved in an argument with the Bashundhara security guards over parking a motorcycle at the Apollo Gate, an entrance to the residential area, around 10:00pm.”

“At one stage of the altercation, the guards attacked the students and Tapu received severe injuries. Later, he was taken to Apollo Hospitals where he is undergoing treatment.”

Following the assault, the general students took to the street on Wednesday night and they again staged the protest at 8am Thursday and continued it till 1:00pm defying the police order to withdraw it.

“However, we called it off after our all demands were met,” said Rabbi.

Assistant commissioner (Gulshan Zone) Rafiqul Islam said the NSU students staged a demonstration in front of Bashundhara Housing Project on Kuril Bishwaroad at 10:30 am.

Later, they entered the housing project around 11:30am and started to vandalise several infrastructures, he added.

On information, police rushed to the spot and lobbed tear gas canisters to disperse the students.

However, the students claimed that they staged the protest in a peaceful manner.