2015-06-30 20:31:00+06:00
Bank swindlers scot-free for partisan support: Muhith
Finance minister Abul Maal Abdul Muhith on Tuesday resented his failure to take actions against the culprits involved in embezzlement of millions of Taka from state-owned banks and blamed support from the ruling party men for the entire affair.



“Sonali Bank and Basic Bank scams have taken place and we have taken some steps to deal with the culprits. A deputy managing director (DMD) had landed in jail and he died there. Another one is still behind the bar,” he said while taking part in discussion before passing the new budget in parliament.



Muhith said, “A good number of those involved in the scams were taken to jail and cases are being filed against them. But I’m not being able to make progress with the pace it should have been.”

But, the finance minister expressed his frustration saying, “Despite my efforts, I could not take a particular culprit to jail as people like him enjoy support from our [party] men. And that is why, I am extremely disappointed.”

An aggregate amount of about Tk 4,000 crore (Taka 40 billion) was misappropriated from the Sonali Bank in the form of fake loans by Hall-Mark Group with connivance of powerful people. Another huge amount of more than Tk 4,500 crore (Taka 45 billion) was embezzled from the Basic Bank by a variety of means.

The Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC) sources said, 27 people are accused in the Hall-Mark scam. Of them, Hall-Mark managing director Tanvir Mahmud, the group’s general manager and Tanvir’s brother in-law Tushar Ahmed, Sonali Bank deputy managing director Mainul Haque, general manger Mir Mahidur Rahman and two DGMs Sheikh Altaf Hossain and Safizuddin Ahmed are now in jail.

Two other accused in the case, Sonali Bank’s former DMD Atiqur Rahman and Sonali Bank’s Ruposhi Bangla branch manager AKM Azizur Rahman have died.

Besides, Hall-Mark chairman Jesmine Islam and DN Sports chairman Motaher Hossain Chowdhury and director Fahmida Chowdhury are released on bail.

All of other accused, including Sonali Bank’s former MD Humayun Kabir and several other bank officials, are now absconding.

The finance ministry that AMA Muhith has been running since 2009 with the assumption of office by the Awami League government is the regulatory authority of the state-owned banks including the two.

The finance minister said, “The board of directors of the Basic Bank has been formed anew. They are investigating into into the scam.”

He said necessary actions would be taken against those involved in the scam once the probe report is available.

“We have already taken measures so that those involved in the scam cannot flee the country,” he added.

The finance minister admitted that the Sonali and Basic scams have created a lack of trust in the country’s banking sector.

“Trust and confidence are definitely required in the banking activities. Whenever the sector lacks trust and confidence, questions are raised in the public mind. We lack the trust and confidence in Sonali and Basic banks and we have taken some measures as well [to restore that],” he said.

Several members of parliament (MPs) in their budget speeches called on the finance minister to make public the list of loan defaulters. In response, Muhith said the list of loan defaulters were placed in parliament in 2010.

“Put your question again [following rules of business], it will be presented in parliament for sure,” he added.

The finance minister also spoke of spread between interest rates of loan and deposit. “My target is to bring it [the spread] down to 4 per cent. But I will not be able to say whether I will be able to do so.”