2014-09-18 14:29:00+06:00
'Dhaka to resolve unsettled issues with Delhi'
Bangladesh will convey its ‘sense of urgency’ for settling the long-pending Teesta water sharing deal and Land Boundary Agreement (LBA) to India during the third Bangladesh-India Joint Consultative Commission (JCC) meeting to be held in New Delhi on Saturday.

Foreign Minister AH Mahmood Ali told journalists at Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport prior to his departure for New Delhi on Thursday, " The unsettled issues need to be settled to take forward the ‘deep’ relations between the two countries and to make it ‘deeper and stronger'."

Asked whether Bangladesh would seek specific timeframe from India to settle the major pending issues, the Foreign Minister said, “These are all continuous process. Specific timeframe can’t be given. Let’s discuss first.”

Foreign Secretary M Shahidul Haque, Director General (South Asia) Tareq M Ariful Islam and DG (EP) Noor-e-Helal Saifur Rahman were also present at the airport.

Mahmood Ali said Bangladesh also expects that India would not allow their soil against Bangladesh as Dhaka cleared its position about it.

He said that he will seek reassurance from India that its territory will not be used against Bangladesh.

The issue apparently emerged following alleged funding towards Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami as a senior BJP leader claimed that West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee funded Jamaat and the All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) has involvement with fundamental outfits.

Banerjee sent money taken from the scam-tainted Saradha Group to the ‘outfit’ in exchange for its help to influence voters in West Bengal and win elections, Siddharth Nath Singh told reporters in Kolkata recently.

At the first JCC, both Bangladesh and India reaffirmed their commitment that the territory of either side would not be allowed for activities inimical to the other, and resolved not to allow their respective territory to be used for training, sanctuary and other operations by domestic or foreign terrorist/militant and insurgent organisations and their operatives.

They also rejected extremism, violence and terrorism, and agreed to cooperate with each other proactively in combating these evils.

Bangladesh side will focus on balanced sharing of common rivers, arranging next Joint Rivers Commission meeting, removal of barriers to boost exports and enhancing regional cooperation under the Bimstec, Saarc and BCIM-EC.

Issues related to security cooperation, better border management to bring down border killings to zero level, power and energy cooperation, water resources cooperation, people-to-people contact, and cooperation in the areas of science, technology and environment will come up for discussion in the JCC.

Meanwhile, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) will be signed with India to build ties between Bangladesh and Nalanda University of India.

Six secretaries from different ministries apart from Foreign Secretary M Shahidul Haque accompanied the Foreign Minister.

The third JCC meeting, to be co-chaired by the External Affairs Minister of India and the Foreign Minister of Bangladesh, is scheduled to be held in New Delhi on September 20.

The JCC was constituted under the Framework Agreement on Cooperation for Development signed during the visit of Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh to Bangladesh in September 2011.

During his stay in India, the Foreign Minister will also meet Indian President Pranab Mukherjee, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other Indian dignitaries.

He is also scheduled to have separate meetings with various members of the Indian Cabinet.