2015-10-09 02:47:00+06:00
Govt official caught taking bribe
A government official has been caught on video, accepting bribes in his office.

M Shahidul Haque, Dhaka Controller of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports (CCIE) office under the commerce ministry has been seen smilingly counting illegal payments and even bargaining with businessmen for money in five video clips which were filmed secretly.

The clips have been obtained by Prothom Alo.

A group of businessmen submitted a written complaint against Shahidul Haque in this regard to the commerce ministry.

Taking the complaint into cognizance, the commerce ministry has already formed a probe committee to investigate into the allegations.

Importers and exporters, wishing to import or export goods, need to collect Import Registration Certificate (IRC) and Export Registration Certificate (ERC) from the CCIE office. Government officials, allegedly, do not issue any of the certificates without bribe.

Commerce secretary Hedayetullah Al Mamoon told Prothom Alo that he could not say much as the investigation was going on.

Asked about the video clips that showed Shahidul taking money from businessmen, the commerce secretary said, “Measures will be taken if he is found guilty in probe report.”

Joint secretary Sadar Ali Biswas who has been appointed to investigate the allegation against Shahidul told Prothom Alo on Wednesday that he began the investigation and hoped to submit the report in two weeks.

However, M Shahidul Haque told Prothom Alo on Tuesday he was a victim of conspiracy.

“Some officials of my office and outside brokers plotted against me,” he said.

Shahidul also said allegations might have been raised against him from the commerce ministry. Allegations were raised earlier, too, but no harm happened to him, he added.

When this correspondent sought his comment on the video clip asking a businessman for bribe, Shahidul tried to twist the topic saying, “Previously, the office was in a messy state. I reorganised it after much effort. None can enter my office without permission. See, this is 12:00pm. Have you seen anyone entering my office?”

However, Shahidul admitted that he was waiting to be investigated by the commerce ministry’s probe body.

Shahidul started his career as a civil servant of the 1985 batch of Bangladesh Civil Service (BCS). Before CCIE, he served the government in important posts of the commerce ministry, tariff commission and Export Promotion Bureau (EPB).

According to commerce ministry sources, Shahidul in his career, was transferred (stand released) several times for breaching code of conduct.