2015-07-09 23:34:00+06:00
‘Use of discretionary powers, corruption hamper business’
Exercise of discretionary powers by incumbents and law enforcers remains major a barrier to doing business and making investment decisions in Bangladesh, says a UK government report.

Corruption, according to the report, is a barrier to the effective development of the private sector and poses business risks. Enforcement of laws is said to be weak and access to justice difficult.

“Politicians, bureaucrats and law enforcement officials often wield significant discretionary power and notable abuses have been brought to light,” noted the report titled “Overseas Business Risk - Bangladesh”, considered an investment guide.

“Bribery and corruption are entrenched in Bangladesh and, despite the best efforts of the media, civil society and the donor community, pervades many aspects of daily life,” added the report published by the foreign and commonwealth office on Wednesday.

It pointed out that procurement practices often lack transparency and are usually coupled with a significant bureaucratic burden.

The report further said there are regular allegations of abuse, including extra-judicial killings, physical mistreatment and corruption, against members of the law enforcement agencies.

“Allegations of human rights abuses by elements of Bangladesh’s security forces remain a serious concern,” it observed.

Terming the political system dominated by two main parties confrontational and highly centralised, the report mentioned that democratic institutions, including parliament and local government, are weak.

Dwelling on the controversial, one-sided elections in January 2014, and the Awami League’s return to power following contentious constitutional amendment, the British foreign office and commonwealth office report also regretted that the opportunity for a renewed focus on democratic processes created by the recent city corporation elections was lost after the BNP had withdrawn citing widespread irregularities.

The UK report reckoned terrorism to be “a residual threat” although there has no significant attacks since 2005 and asked the British people to maintain caution.

About weak regulation in intellectual property rights, the report said copyright abuse and piracy are widespread and asked the rights’ holder to “develop a robust IPR strategy before entering the Bangladeshi market”.

The report referred to Transparency International’s corruption perceptions index for 2014 that placed Bangladesh at 145 out of 175 countries and also the World Bank’s ease of doing business survey for 2015 that shows the country’s standing at 173 out of 189 countries.