2014-07-05 15:30:00+06:00
A power-monger VC
Chittagong University vice-chancellor Anwarul Azim Arif is holding 21 posts alone. Besides, giving contractual and temporary appointment in 12 administrative and branch head posts, he has kept those under his control.



Now, Anwarul Azim is the most powerful among the vice-chancellors of government and autonomous universities.



He has appointed about 250 teachers at Chittagong University in three years, a Prothom Alo investigation found. Most of the appointments were controversial.



Allegations of appointing comparatively less meritorious teachers, relaxing merit level, appointing staff beyond the advertised posts, and bribery for appointments were found against him.



He was criticised for appointing his two sisters-in-law and a daughter-in-law in different official posts without any advertisement. He has appointed his son as a teacher. There are also allegations against him of enjoying three residential facility and three official cars.



If anybody protests his illegal activities, he or she face threats of losing jobs.



Some of the senior teachers alleged that the vice-chancellor is the president of the university senate and the syndicate at a time. Besides, he is the president of academic council, finance committee and planning and development committee. He is also holding other 16 posts.

Thus, he draws huge amount of honorarium, which is several times more than his regular salary. Seven committees for appointment and promotion of teachers and officers sit almost everyday and honorarium for attending every meeting is nearly Tk 1000.

He is the head of the board of directors of four medical colleges and hospitals, namely Agrabad Maa O Shishu Medical College, International Dental Medical College of Chandgaon, Institute of Community Ophthalmology under the Medical Faculty of the university and Newcastle University College. Generally, senior teachers, pro-vice-chancellor get the responsibility of the committees.

The vice-chancellor is also the chairman of Education, Research and Training Institute. He is the president of the managing committee of World University School funded by the university and foreign donors.

He has become chairman of the newly established Human Resources Management department.

Vice-chancellor Anwarul Azim Arif said, "I have got the responsibility of newly established department as the vice-chancellor of the university. There is nothing wrong."

He is also the head of the Centre for Business Studies situated in Chittangong city.