2015-03-13 00:18:00+06:00
Women give bribe, sometimes take also: TIB
A woman has to pay Tk 300 to Tk 40,000 as bribe for running a case regarding violence against women, a Transparency International Bangladesh (TIB) study found.

The study also found women not only give bribe but they take bribe too.

The TIB found this in the study conducted over women at two unions of Gazipur and Jamalpur.

TIB unveiled the research paper titled ‘Bribe in women experience: Scenario of two unions in Bangladesh’ on Thursday at TIB office in Dhanmondi.

According to the research paper, a plaintiff woman in any case of violence against women has to pay the concerned police Tk 2000-5000 for running a case, Tk 300-600 for investigation in the case, Tk 5000 to take the case into court's cognizance, Tk 20000-40000 as maintenance cost of police vehicles to detain defendant in the case.

The corruption watchdog said women, who participated in study, are informed better about where the bribed money goes.

TIB Trustee Board chairman Sultana Kamal said women become victimised for their helplessness. Women from minority religion face two dimensional and three dimensional problems. Sometimes they are being used as medium in bribery process, she added.

It is cannot be said that a woman would not be corrupt, she added.

TIB executive director Iftekharuzzaman said, “ Unlawful exchange of money for getting services is becoming part of normal lifestyle as people see that the corrupt persons are not being punished. Even if they were found convict, they get nominal punishment. Women are being victim of corruption to get service and they are being used as medium of bribery.”

The research shows that women have to give bribe to get service in health sector, education sector, at local government institutions, from law enforcement agencies, non-government organisations (NGOs), at land office, and at banks.

Women also have to give bribe to get reproductive health care, maternity allowance, VGD-VGF cards, stipend and for filing women repression case with police stations. Women union parishad members are being victims of corruption process to get allotted development budget, the study found.

A woman, who once was victimised, quoted dialogues of a female UP member: “Do you have a card? I have got four cards this time. It is the last one. If you need, can take the card otherwise I will sell it to other one for more money.”

“When I asked how much I have to pay, the UP member said Tk 3000," she added. The cards, however, are supposed to be distributed for free.

The research also found that women believe if service giver asks for money, it is bribe; but if the service taker gives money to get service, it’s not bribe at all.



