2015-03-07 12:00:00+06:00
US jails Bangladeshi for ‘plot to kidnap Joy’
A US court has sentenced two persons, including a Bangladeshi, over a bribery scheme for collecting information on Sajeeb Wazed Joy, son of prime minister Sheikh Hasina, to kidnap and harm Joy and his family members.



The Bangladeshi national was identified as Rizvi Ahmed Ceaser, 36, son of Mohammed Ullah Mamun of Fairfield, Connecticut.



The court on Thursday sentenced Rizvi to 42 months while US national Johannes Thaler, 51, to 30 months in prison.



Both admitted to participating in a bribery scheme with Robert Lustyik, a former FBI special agent who worked with a counterintelligence squad.



Rizvi confessed that he was advised by the BNP high-command only to collect information on Joy and for that, he would get half a million US dollar. His father is a vice president of pro-BNP cultural body Jatiyatabadi Samajik Sangskritik Sangstha (Jasas).

According to the statements of the two accused while pleading guilty, Thaler and Lustyik between September 2011 and March 2012 solicited bribes from Rizvi, in exchange for Lustyik's agreement to provide internal, confidential documents and other confidential information to which the special agent had access.

Thaler was Lustyik's friend, and Rizvi was an acquaintance of Thaler. Rizvi had sought confidential law enforcement information, including a "Suspicious Activity Report," about Joy.

s part of the scheme, Lustyik and Thaler exchanged text messages about how to pressure Rizvi to pay them additional money in exchange for confidential information, stated a US Justice Department press release.

Rizvi assured two of his American co-conspirators that he would pay them $40,000 upfront and $30,000 per month if they could accomplish their job.

He also wanted them to erase all criminal records on Arafat Rahman Koko and Tarique Rahman, sons of BNP Chairperson Khaleda Zia, from US FBI or intelligence records.

Rizvi's imprisonment will start from April 20, 2015, and Robert Lustyik will be sentenced soon.

The case was investigated by the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General, and prosecuted by Trial Attorney Emily Rae Woods of the Criminal Division's Public Integrity Section and Assistant US Attorney Benjamin Allee of the Southern District of New York.

The sentences were imposed by US District Judge Vincent L Briccetti of the Southern District of New York, according to the Department of Justice.