2016-03-16 14:56:00+06:00
Court rejects Tarique’s plea for quashing bribery case
The High Court (HC) on Wednesday turned down a plea filed by BNP senior vice-chairman Tarique Rahman and three others seeking the quashing of proceedings against them in a Tk-21 crore bribery case.



An HC bench comprising justice Md Ruhul Quddus and justice Mahmudul Hoque passed the order, clearing the way to continue the case in the lower court.



The three other accused are former state minister for home Lutfozzaman Babar, Bashundhara Group director Abu Sufian and businessman Kazi Salimul Haque Kamal alias Econo Kamal.



Barrister Mahabub Uddin Khokan and barrister HM Sanzid Siddique stood for Tarique Rahman while Anti Corruption Commission (ACC) counsel Khurshid Alam Khan argued for the state.



Sanzid Siddique said the HC discharged Tarique’s pleas while the court upheld the bail of the BNP leader in the case.



On 4 October 2007, the ACC filed the case with Ramna police station against six people for the transaction of Tk 21 crore in bribe for not implicating one of Bashundhara Group chairman Ahmed Akbar Sobhan's sons in a sensational murder case filed in 2006.



Tarique’s was not there in the first information report (FIR), but his involvement was found during the investigation.



During investigation, the ACC found that Tk 14 crore was transacted through cheques while Tk 7 crore in cash.



The body of Humayun Kabir Sabbir, 30, a director of Bashundhara Telecommunication Limited, was found in Gulshan on 5 July 2005.



As the involvement of Bashundhara Group chairman’s son Shafiyat Sobhan Sanvir was found in the killing, he along with his father met former state minister for Home Lutfozzaman Babar and requested him not to implicate his name in the murder case.



After arrest, Babar confessed that Sobhan went to him and agreed to provide Tk 50 crore against his demand of Tk 100 crore in kickbacks for not implicating Sanvir in the case, even after investigators detected his involvement in the killing.



The ACC submitted charge sheet against eight accused on 23 April 2008. A special trial court framed charges against them on July 14 of the same year.



Later, Tarique and three others filed petitions with the High Court challenging the legality of the case and charge-framing.



After primary hearing, the HC stayed the case proceedings and issued a rule. The court started hearing the rule this year.