2015-02-22 23:15:00+06:00
None to usurp power braving capital punishment: Hasina
Prime minister Sheikh Hasina on Sunday expressed confidence that no one would risk their lives to grab state power, as this was a violation of the constitution and could result in capital punishment.

"No one will jump into the fatal flames," she said at a meeting organised by the ruling Awami League in Dhaka city, marking International Mother Language Day.

Sheikh Hasina alleged that BNP chief Khaleda Zia believed someone from "Uttarpara" [northern side of the city, implying the cantonment area] will come to the scene and bring her to power.

"Those whom she admires, know very well that what consequences they would have to face if they come to power by such means," she said.

The prime minister referred to the capital punishment specified in the constitution regarding unconstitutional capturing of state power.

She also said the BNP leader is looking towards "her foreign mentor" instead of the people of the country.

"The secretary of state of the United States of America, the country in which she trusts so much, also asked her to stop violence and killing people," Hasina said, adding, "The master toward whom she has turned, opposed our war of independence."

"But it is we who earned independence. The very same power also created barriers to implementing the Padma bridge project. We are now building the bridge with domestic financing," the premier said.

She further criticised the civil society members for their initiative to hold dialogue to resolve the crisis. "I read a list of 13 names, but was not clear about the definition of civil society," she said.

She claimed that some of them served as civil servants and lobbied with her government for promotions and postings.

"Those who charge interest, take bribes and act as sycophants are not in a position to change the fate of the people of this country," Sheikh Hasina said.

She alleged that some of the civil society members wanted to fly flags from their cars [by becoming ministers] in an interim government.

"They might have thought that Khaleda Zia's destructive activities would pave the way for something to happen and they will have flags on their cars. But such dreams will never come true," she added.