2017-03-26 12:32:00+06:00
Sylhet raid: What we know so far


So far, at least six people have been killed and dozens injured during the raid conducted by joint forces on the suspected militant hideout in the South Surma police station area of Sylhet city.

Here is what the Prothom Alo been able to know till now:

Suspected militant hideout at Atia Mahal located

At about 2:30am on Thursday, police cordoned off a residential building, 'Atia Mahal', in the South Surma police station area of Shibbari in Sylhet city.

Police conjecture that a group of militant and neo JMB leader Moinul alias Musa are staying on the ground floor of the building.

SWAT reaches the spot

Around 3:40pm on Friday, members of the specialised law enforcement agency SWAT (Special Weapons and Tactics), reached Sylhet and cordoned off the suspected militant hideout.

Sylhet city police station officer-in-charge Aktar Hossain said police plans to raid the building after the SWAT team arrived.

'Operation Twilight' begins

Around 8:00am on Saturday, a team of the army para-commando force from Sylhet Jalalabad that took part in an operation in the deadly militant attack in Dhaka's Gulshan cafe, started preparing for an operation at the house. Vehicles of the fire service, police armoured vehicles and ambulances were seen at the spot in the morning.

Jalalabad army intelligence wing official said the army’s 'Operation Twilight' led by GOC Major General Anwarul Momen of 17 Infantry Division would kick off just after 9:30am.

Gunshots heard

At about 10:05am, gunshots were heard. Meanwhile, electricity, water and gas supplies were snapped. Rain began after the raid started. The rain stopped around 11:30am.

78 residents rescued from building

At about 11:15am, on-duty police official said the army commando team rescued 78 people from the besieged building. A fire service team helped the army commando rescue the residents.

The rescued handed over

Sylhet city police additional deputy commissioner Zedan Al Musa said the rescued people were handed over to the family members.

Rescue operation ends

At about 1:15pm, an official of the Jalalabad army intelligence wing, declared the rescue operation had been completed.

At a briefing, Brigadier General Fakhrul Ahsan at the army headquarters said they had rescued 78 people unhurt. Militants were still inside the building. The militants exploded 10-12 powerful explosives during the raid, he added.

He also said a formal announcement would be made when the operation ended.

One injured, rounds of gunshots, explosions heard

From Saturday noon, a several rounds of gunshots and explosions were heard in the area of the residence. This continued till 3:30pm on Saturday.

A certain Shibul Malakar, 27, who was admitted to the Sylhet Osmani Medical College, was shot during the raid. A doctor at the hospital said Shibul Malakar was shot from the back.

Shibul Malakar is the son of Bashanta Malakar, a local resident of the area.

Army briefing

At about 6:30pm on Saturday, army gave a briefing about the joint forces' 'Operation Twilight'. They said the rescued persons were kept at a building in Pathanpara.

Double blast

Till Saturday night, six people, including a police officer, and a journalist, policemen, members of the Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) among 50 others were injured in the two blasts near the suspected militant hideouts.

Around 6:45pm on Saturday, a bomb was exploded minutes after the army briefing near the briefing spot. At least 30 people, including a journalist, were injured.

At about 7:55pm, six members of police and some others were injured in another blast in Purba Pathantala mosque area in the city.

Movement restricted

The Sylhet Metropolitan Police had directed people in the city not to move in groups from South Surma upazila's Humayun Rashid Chattar area, Parair Chak area and on Sylhet-Fenjuganj Road, to Pir Habibur Rahman Chattar area of the city. The dwellers were also served notice not to stage any rally in the aforementioned areas.

IS claims responsibility

Hours after the blasts, the SITE Intelligence Group disclosed that the Islamic State's (IS) 'Amaq News Agency' said the group is responsible for a bombing on Bangladeshi forces in Sylhet.

The SITE Intelligence Group post said on 25 March 2017, in an Arabic report posted on IS' Telegram channel, 'Amaq' cited a security source, stating that the blast of the improvised explosive device (IED) resulted in killing and wounding dozens.



Intensive search and raids in Shibbari area

On Sunday morning, an intensive search and raids were launched in Shibbari area of Sylhet city. On condition of anonymity, an official told Prothom Alo about this around 11:00am.

Fresh three blasts

At least three bombs exploded inside the militant den 'Atia Mahal' from 9:57am to 11:43am on Sunday.

Another explosion heard

Witnesses said another powerful explosion was heard inside the residential building, Atia Mahal, at about 2:41pm. The blast jerked the area and it spread fear in the locality. A number of gunshots were heard around 3:15pm, the witnesses added.

Briefing on raid

A briefing will be held near Pathanpara Mosque area around 5:00pm, said Zedan Al Musa.

Two militants killed

The army on Sunday said two suspected militants were shot dead during the 'Operation Twilight' at the hideout in Sylhet city.

Read more:

Jt forces' anti-militant 'operation' launched

Army joins SWAT, police for Sylhet anti-militant 'operation'

SWAT cordons off Sylhet 'militant hideout'

Sylhet anti-militant raid through lenses

'Send SWAT, time is running out'

Police cordon off suspected militant hideout