2016-04-13 19:36:00+06:00
President, PM greet countrymen on Bangla New Year
President M Abdul Hamid and prime minister Sheikh Hasina on Wednesday conveyed Bangla New Year’s greetings to the countrymen.

In separate messages on the eve of Pahela Baishakh 1423, they wished peace, happiness and prosperity of the people and the country in the New Year.



The president, in his message, said the appeal of Pahela Baishakh to the Bangalees is everlasting and universal. It inspires all to advance towards progress leaving behind the past, he added.



He said not only in the cultural arena, the Bengali new year celebration is unique in the economic and social fields, too.



Referring to holding of Baishakhi fairs across the country, the president said the huge trading in small and cottage industrial products not only expedites the economy but also plays a role in establishing amity and harmony among the people.



He hoped that the Bangla New year will strengthen the national unity and solidarity and bring the message of unlimited happiness.

In her message, prime minister Sheikh Hasina said Bangla New Year is a universal festival of the Bangalees.



In order to add a new dimension to the Pahela Boishakh celebration, the government, for the first time in country’s history, introduced festival bonus from this year, he added.



“We are pledge-bound to uphold the universal cultural heritage of the Bangalees,” the prime minister said. Bangla New Year means the day to get inspired with new hopes, she said, adding that Nababarsha (new year) appears in a new shape every year in the works of country’s writers, poets and artistes.



Marking the Pahela Boishakh, fairs and other celebrations take place across the country, which contribute to the economy along with recreations, the prime minister said.



“Bangla New Year sharpens our spirit and the feeling of nationality,” she said.

“There were blows again and again. People were killed in bombing. But no evil attempt of the fanatic and communal forces was successful,” she added.



The Bangalees have contained Bangla New Year as a component of lifestyle and culture, she added.



The prime minister hoped the celebration of Bangla Nababarsha would help the nationhood flourish further, unite the nation and resist communal, fanatic and anti-state forces. It will also unite the people against the evil forces involved in terrorism in the name of politics and burning people to death, she said.



The prime minister also said the Boishakhi fairs and other events to celebrate Bangla New Year would turn into weapons to fight against fundamentalism, communalism, injustice, exploitation, poverty and hunger.



