2015-10-27 18:29:00+06:00
US takes ISIS’ claim seriously
The United States said on Monday it has taken seriously the claims of Iraq and Syria based militant outfit Islamic State in Iraq and Levant, better known as ISIS or ISIL, that it is responsible for terrorist attacks in Bangladesh.

“We certainly note with concern ISIL’s claim of responsibility for the attack. And, as we have elsewhere, we take those claims seriously,” John Kirby, a spokesperson of US State Department, told this to reporters at a regular press briefing on Monday.

When his attention was drawn to the recent terrorist attacks in Bangladesh including the killing of an Italian aid worker, the spokesperson also said the US is working “closely with the government of Bangladesh and key partners to assess who is responsible for these attacks and to help bring them to justice.”

Asked whether the presence of ISIS inside Bangladesh is a real one, Kirby replied, “It’s difficult to say the degree to which ISIL is or is not operating in Bangladesh. I’m not at a position where I can make that determination. But there’s an investigation going on right now that we want to - if there’s a need to be helpful, we want to be helpful.”

He continued said it is by law enforcement authorities in Bangladesh to confirm responsibility. “It’s up to them to do this. But I think it’s prudent for us to take ISIL claims seriously, and we do. But I just don’t have anything specific to give you in terms of actual responsibility for it.”

The spokesperson further said, “We need to let the law enforcement agencies in Bangladesh investigate this and come to their own conclusions.”

In response to a question whether the US is working with Turkish government as well in the way it is working with Bangladesh, to see whether the Ankara bombing is ISIL act, the spokesperson said, “What I said was if the Bangladesh government needed help, we obviously would contribute in any way that was feasible. It’s being investigated by Bangladesh authorities.”

Read more:

Purported IS tweets uploaded from Bangladesh

IS claims murder of Italian in Dhaka

IS behind Tazia blast, says SITE