2015-08-07 21:37:00+06:00
Bangladesh, yet another puzzle
Bangladesh, which has made significant economic progress over the past more than two decades, has been a surprise to those who are concerned at the rise of religious extremism almost at the country’s strategic doorstep.

Although there are indications that South Asia may be the latest front of Islamic State, Bangladesh has apparently been spared, observed a US-based bi-monthly magazine.

“This is surprising for several reasons,” said The National Interest, in an article titled “Will ISIS Infect Bangladesh?” published on 4 August.

It argued that many European nationals of Bangladeshi origin have supplied IS with mercenaries.

Additionally, the magazine said, the country is volatile, with constant political feuds and some radicalised elements of society.

“This makes the country quite vulnerable, particularly against the backdrop of IS’s increasing influence in nearby Afghanistan and Pakistan,” the article pointed out.

Bangladesh is often referred to as a puzzle for its economic performance and social development despite the uncertainty on the political and governance front.

The magazine tried to find answer to the question why Bangladesh has avoided IS’s crosshairs, in the comments by former US ambassador to Bangladesh, Dan Mozena.

“A moderate, tolerant, democratic country, Bangladesh, the world’s seventh most populous country and third largest Muslim majority country, is a viable alternative to violent extremism in a troubled region of the world,” the diplomat was quoted to have said.

The magazine said the majority of Bangladesh’s large Muslim population rejects violence, and the nation is more concerned with achieving economic prosperity amid numerous challenges.

Its challenges “range from a general disregard for the rule of law and rampant corruption, to a judicial system that suffers from political interference,” the article argued.

It painted a grim picture about economic growth, however.

“The lack of a national consensus on future policy has diminished momentum for economic reforms, and deteriorating prospects for near-term improvements in economic freedom make it unlikely that the relatively high growth rates of recent years can be maintained,” the magazine said.

Describing Bangladesh as a rare example of a Muslim-majority democracy with a growing economy, the article cited “instances of extremist violence”. It referred to the militant outfit Jamaatul Mujahidin Bangladesh (JMB), which coordinated an audacious, country-wide bombing campaign on 17 August 2005.