2015-08-17 01:44:00+06:00
Countrywide serial blasts cases remain pending
Of the 161 cases regarding the series of bomb-blasts around the country, 63 remain unsettled. The cases have been delayed as the witnesses and offenders remain out of reach yet.

On August 17, 2005, around 500 bombs went off at 300 locations in 63 out of the 64 districts of the country. The bombs exploded within a span of half an hour from at about 11:30am. Jama’atul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) claimed responsibility for the blasts, stating they wanted to establish the ‘law of Allah’ rather than the existing laws.

Two people were killed and 104 were injured in the bomb attacks.

Later, members of the banned JMB conducted suicide attacks in Gazipur, Chittagong, Jhalakathi, Chandpur, Netrakona, and Sylhet and killed 33 people, including lawyers, judges, and policemen.

The incumbent four-party government of the time had been indifferent about JMB up until the bomb blasts. But after the blasts, it conducted intensive investigations into the incident.

The government of the time detained most JMB top leaders, including founder Shaikh Abdur Rahman.

Meanwhile, six militants of the JMB, including its chief Shaikh Abdur Rahman, Siddiqul Islam alias Bangla Bhai, Ataur Rahman, Abdul Awal were sentenced to death on 30 March, 2007.

In 108 cases, a total of 15 people were given death sentences, 118 got life terms, and 118 were given sentences if various terms.

The latest verdict was delivered on 10 August in a speedy trial over the bombing in Gazipur. The speedy trial sentenced 17 people to 10 years each. Of them, six accused are still in hiding.

Eighteen cases were filed over bombing in 33 places in Dhaka. Verdict was passed in one case and the remaining eight are under trial. Police submitted final reports in nine cases failing to pursue them.

About proceedings of the cases, public prosecutor at the Dhaka Metropolitan Magistrate Court, Abdullah said the accused in the cases are also sued in many cases across country.

But settlement of the cases is being delayed since the accused cannot be present in those cases for lack of proper coordination of the authorities concerned.

Necessary steps are being taken to accelerate the proceedings of the cases.