2015-11-07 19:16:00+06:00
'IS militants trying to make inroads'
A brazen attack by knife-wielding assailants riding motorcycles this week in Dhaka, left a constable dead and one officer injured at a police checkpoint, reports Voice of America (VOA).

The group that calls itself Islamic State (IS) claimed responsibility for the attack hours later in postings on its websites, said VOA.

It was the most recent in one of several acts of terror in Bangladesh that IS claimed in recent months.

VOA quoting intelligence analysts says Bangladesh is ripe for activities by IS extremists. There also are fears in Dhaka that IS could be plotting to use the country and Bangladeshis recruited from abroad as a springboard to spread its network in parts of Asia, according to the report.

Officials in the capital at first sternly denied that IS was involved, but, VOA said, they now concede that the militant group appears to be a genuine threat.

“We are examining if there is an existence of IS in Bangladesh,” Information Minister Hasanul Haq Inu told VOA. The recent incidents were aimed “at destabilizing society,” he added.

IS has declared its members carried out two high-profile killings of foreigners: Italian aid-worker Cesare Tavella, 50, who was fatally shot on 28 September in Dhaka, and 55-year-old Japanese agriculturalist Kunio Hoshi, who was killed on 3 October in northern Bangladesh.

Other attacks claimed by IS targeted Bangladeshis, including a suicide attack on a Shi'ite procession in the capital last week that killed a teenager and another man and wounded dozens of others. That claim was verified by monitors from the US-based SITE group, which studies and tracks terrorists' activities, according to VOA report.

Violence claimed by the IS comes in the midst of a different wave of terrorism in Bangladesh that has targeted secularist bloggers and publishers since 2013, said the report.

In the most recent incident, a secular blogger was killed and three others were wounded in separate attacks in Dhaka last week. Al-Qaida in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS) reportedly said it targeted them for making derogatory remarks about the Muslim faith.

The Bangladesh government has blamed most of the violence on home-grown terrorists and opposition politicians, saying the attacks were “an outcome of conspiracy” by local and international actors trying to undermine the government.

Al-Qaida and the Taliban have been involved in the violence, but home minister Asaduzzaman Khan Kamal told reporters recently that no links to the IS had been uncovered.

However, security expert Ishfaq llahi Choudhury told VOA’s Bangla Service that IS militants and violent domestic groups in Bangladesh are ideologically and philosophically similar.

“Some of the groups are using the name of IS in order to gain importance," he was quoted to have said.