2014-04-18 15:39:00+06:00
30% women forced to have sex with husbands
More than one-third of the women at some point of their married life suffer sexual torture by their husbands in Bangladesh. Women, aged between 20 and 34, are more vulnerable to the torture. This is more common in the villages than in the urban areas.

Bangladesh Bureau of Statistic (BSS) conducted a survey on violence on women for the first time, titled "Violence against Women (VAW) survey 2011".

The survey revealed a total of 30% of women said that they are compelled to involve in sexual intercourse by their husbands.

This survey revealed almost covert sexual torture prevailing in the society. The survey was published in December last year.

Data for the survey were collected from 19-28 December 2011 by the funding of United Nation Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA). Around 12 thousand women participated in the survey.

Sexual torture by husbands means forcing wives to involve in physical relations, consent of wife to have physical relations fearing wrath of husband, compelling wives to do something against her will or which she thinks insulting for her.



Sexual assault by husband not approved as torture

United Nation has approved sexual assault by husband as "torture". But Repression against Women and Children (Amendment) Act, 2003 does not approve the issues that married women have sexual rights and husband cannot force wives for involving in sexual intercourse.

According to this Act, if a man compels a woman of above 16-year old to have physical relationship without marrying her then it will be considered as "rape". That means, willingness or unwillingness of wives is overlooked in the Act.

On the other hand, the Act also says that if one involves in sexual relationship with an under-16 woman with or without her will it will be considered as "rape".

At the same time according to the child Marriage Restraint Act, marriage of any under-18 girl is considered as child marriage.

Though the law ensures punishment for child marriage but the marriage itself is legal. If the marriage is legal then the husband has the right to engage in physical relation with his wife. However, wife's consent remains secondary in this case.

Domestic violence (prevention and protection) Act 2010 has included the issue of sexual torture, but this act does not make the issue clear.



What experts say

Bangladesh Legal Aid and Services Trust (BLAST) volunteer director Sara Hossain told Prothom Alo women were not willing to talk about the violence, which were happening in Bangladesh. We could not bring the issue to the policymakers because data related to this issue were not available. Now we can ensure legal safety based on this BBS survey.

Psychiatrist Mohit Kamal said, "We listen to the life history of patients. 90% of the married female patients, who are suffering from depression and want to commit suicide, have the history of forced sexual intercourses."