2015-08-25 21:23:00+06:00
CCTV footages remain unused
Two plainclothes policemen of Gulshan police station were sitting in front of the monitor. The screen showed multiple occurrences of traffic rule violation at the Gulshan-1 roundabout. However, the surveying policemen did nothing, because they don’t have any instruction on what to do next. So, the roles of footages capturing incidents of traffic violation and other crimes are remaining unused.

Funded by Gulshan, Baridhara and Niketan Kalyan Samity, 100 CCTV cameras have been installed in the streets of Gulshan on 5 May. Another 500 CCTV cameras will be installed in the nearby areas soon. The digital video recorders (DVR) of these cameras are connected to a control room in Gulshan police station where the footages are sent for surveillance. The cameras can function swiftly at night as well, and the footages taken by the cameras are very clear.

On Monday, the policemen of Gulshan police station were seen surveying over the traffic and law and order situation of Gulshan, Banani and Niketan areas. Although no arrests have been made based on the footages yet, the number of crime has decreased in the areas where the cameras are installed, police claimed.

Police also said that donations worth Tk 2.09 crore were made to the Gulshan, Banani, and Niketan Kalyan Samity by 21 individuals and organisations for the primary installation of the 100 cameras.

The local samities are in charge of maintainance of the cameras, while the police is responsible for the surveillance. The residents of these areas will not have to pay at all for this project, police added.

Police officials claimed intensive surveillance is going on with the cameras. The footages are date and time stamped, so they can be used for future legal proceedings in case of crimes.

Officer in charge of Gulshan police station Sirazul Islam said the surveillance is going on continuously, and they are already getting benefited. “In fear of getting caught, the number of crime in these areas has dropped significantly,” he claimed.

However, general people are yet to see any fruitful effect of this surveillance.

Tanvir and Shah Alam, two officials who work for an organisation that provides security to three buildings close to the Gulshan-1 and Gulshan-2 highways, said they heard about the police survailance, but have no idea where or how the surveillance takes place. There is no difference in the traffic management or any other sector as well, they mentioned.

However the officers at the Gulshan police station said since the installation of the cameras, incidents of hijacking, car theft, and reckless driving have dropped significantly.

They also said that the cameras can identify number plate of motor vehicles. If the number plate of any blacklisted car comes under the cameras’ coverage, the control room will get an instant signal. However, they have not caught any blacklisted car using this technology yet, they admitted.