2014-09-26 18:19:00+06:00
Disputes over booty cause 4 murders: Police
After the arrest of two prime suspects and four others in connection with the four murders in Keraniganj, police on Friday said disputes over the share of booty and extramarital

affairs had led to the gruesome killings.

Police arrested two prime suspects — Sumon alias CNG Sumon, 30, and Jakaria Hossain alias Jony, 26, — and four others from Munshiganj and Gazipur districts early on Friday.

Tipped off, two special teams of Dhaka police conducted drives in different areas of the district and its surrounding districts and arrested the six.

A team, led by ASP Lima, conducted a raid on Kathalbari village in Srinagar upazila of Munshiganj at about 3:00am and arrested Jony along with Sahida Begum.

CNG Sumon along with Rani Begum were arrested by another police team, led by ASP Monalisa, from a house in Mirzapur Bazar area of Gazipur at about 4:30am.

Police also arrested two other people in connection with the brutal murder.

Briefing reporters at Dhaka Metropolitan Police Media Centre on Friday, Dhaka superintendent police (SP) Habibur Rahman said deceased Saju Ahmed was an active member of an organised criminal gang involved in various crimes, including robbery and hijacking.

Saju had disputes with his gang members over the share of goods and cash money looted on different occasions from different places.

Besides, he incurred personal wrath of robbers Sumon and Jony as he had been maintaining illicit relations simultaneously with the wives of both of them, the SP said.

During investigation, police came to know that Sumon and Jony directly took part in the killing mission, he said, adding that they killed Saju first and then his wife Ranju Begum and their two kids one after another.

Police recovered the bodies of the four victims with their hands and legs tied up with ropes from the first floor of a six-storey building at Abdullahpur Kadampur Kalakandi on Wednesday morning. The killers might have strangled all of them to death 3-4 days ago and kept the door of the house locked from outside.