2015-11-04 02:48:00+06:00
Police efficiency questioned


Questions have been raised as to whether there are any investigation into the attacks on bloggers and publishers? If so, why aren’t the perpetrators being netted? Such questions are being reiterated at protest rallies and meetings regarding the killing of Jagriti publisher Faisal Arefin Dipan and the assault of three others recently.

The victims’ families seem sceptical about getting justice.

Several officials of law enforcement agencies have admitted that they lack the competence to probe such militant cases. Militancy in the country has now reached such a degree that special forces are required.

The assault on freedom of expression began on 14 January, 2013 with the attack on blogger Asif Mohiuddin, who survived the attack by unidentified assailants in Dhaka’s Uttara.

Five bloggers, writers and publishers have been murdered in the country so far in 2015. However, the accused have not been brought to book.

In fact, no one has been held so far for being involved in the last four murder cases.

It has been alleged that police could not reveal any information from the two suspects, caught by people allegedly after the hacking blogger Oyasiqur Rahman Babu.

Though several intelligence agencies have ‘militancy cells’, they do not have any specialised unit. And so, their operations remain limited to collecting and providing information. Police do not have any branch to curb militancy in the country while the Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) has a cell but lacks manpower.

According to police and RAB, police personnel stationed in several police stations have no capability to investigate militancy cases.

RAB sources said the elite force arrested a total of 1,165 militant leaders and members since its inception in 2004. Of them, 603 are Jama'atul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) members.

A competent source in RAB said, “According to intelligence information, the militants have targets to carry out massive attacks and kill important individuals.”

“We have come to know that they have plans to hijack an aircraft and kill some very important persons. We have to stop militants’ motivational work, recruiting and financing. Those who work with these issues, should be trained, educated and given incentive,” he added.

While talking to newsmen, RAB’s additional director general Colonel Ziaul Ahsan, who has been working on militant operations in Bangladesh for long, said, “Militancy has been ingrained in their psyche. It requires concerted effort to bring them out of that mindset.”

A DMP officer told the Prothom Alo that some 25 to 30 police officers are going abroad every year to study and most of them study counter terrorism and related issues. Many have obtained PhD degrees in terrorism and militancy. But they are not engaged in the relevant jobs on their return home.

DMP joint commissioner (DB) Monirul Islam has been dealing with the operations of militants in Bangladesh for nearly seven years. He told Prothom Alo on Tuesday that the DB is to deal with militant activities along with other crimes. “Under the circumstances, we need a specialised unit to combat militancy,” he said.

A senior DB officer said the same law enforcers who run after thieves and robbers, and are working to contain political violence and sabotage, are also being used to combat militancy.

The DB officer said one of the two officers who have now been mostly engaged in containing militancy was brought from the industrial police unit just a few months back. The other officer is working at a same time with bomb disposal unit, leading the team to resist abduction and hunting for militants.

There are some other DB officials who work for combating militancy but they have neither experience nor training in the issue.

The officer said that militancy has become more complicated. The most worrying aspect is that internet and cyber space are widely used in propagating, recruiting, training, fund collection and other purposes of militancy. None is to monitor and check their online activities.

He added that there must be intensive interrogation, rehabilitation and motivation and surveillance of the people who were caught in militancy activities. A specialized unit is required for the purpose. The unit will only monitor and research on militancy activities.

The people, who mastermind attacks and brainwash youths, must be traced.