2016-06-30 21:30:00+06:00
US adds AQIS to 'terror' list


The United States on Thursday added al-Qa’ida in the Indian Subcontinent to its terror blacklist.

The state department has announced the AQIS as a “foreign terrorist Organisation” and its leader, Indian-born Asim Umar, a “specially designated global terrorist.”

The consequences of this designation include a prohibition against US persons engaging in transactions with AQIS and Umar and the freezing of all of their property and interests in the United States, or which come within the United States or the possession or control of US persons.

In addition, the consequences of AQIS’ FTO designation include a prohibition against knowingly providing, or attempting or conspiring to provide, material support or resources to the organisation.

Al-Qa’ida leader Ayman al-Zawahiri announced the formation of AQIS in a video address in September 2014. The group is led by Asim Umar, a former member of US designated foreign terrorist organisation Harakat ul-Mujahidin.

The AQIS claimed responsibility for the 6 September, 2014 attack on a naval dockyard in Karachi, in which militants attempted to hijack a Pakistani Navy frigate.

The AQIS has also claimed responsibility for the murders of activists and writers in Bangladesh, including that of US citizen Avijit Roy, US Embassy local employee Xulhaz Mannan, and of Bangladeshi nationals Oyasiqur Rahman Babu, Ahmed Rajib Haideer, and AKM Shafiul Islam.

Thursday’s action notifies the US public and the international community that AQIS and Umar are actively engaged in terrorism.

Designations of terrorist individuals and groups expose and isolate organisations and individuals, and result in denial of access to the US financial system.

Moreover, designations can assist or complement the law enforcement actions of other US agencies and other governments.

Al-Qaeda, the jihadist movement founded by the late Osama bin Laden, has long been a banned group, but Thursday’s order singles out a relatively new offshoot.

Bin Laden’s successor, Egyptian ideologue Ayman al-Zawahiri, announced the formation of AQIS in September 2014 to carry the group’s fight to India, Pakistan and Bangladesh.

Since then, the group has claimed responsibility for a number of deadly and sometimes spectacular attacks, which may explain the US decision to list it separately.