2016-05-03 18:10:00+06:00
Joy should prove his innocence in $300m laundering: Rizvi
BNP senior joint secretary general Ruhul Kabir Rizvi on Tuesday said Khaleda Zia talked about Tk 2,500 core involving Sajeeb Wazed Joy based on information, reports UNB news agency.



“Khaleda Zia who was prime minister thrice didn’t say anything (about Joy) without any evidence. She has surely got information about it (Tk 25,00 crore) and she’s somehow obtained it,” said Rizvi.



The BNP leader came up with the remarks while speaking at a discussion arranged by Mayor Professor MA Mannan Mukti Parishad at Dhaka Reporters’ Unity (DRU), demanding the detained Gazipur city mayor’s immediate release.



Earlier on Saturday, the BNP chairperson, Khaleda Zia, at a programme of JAGPA alleged that the government arrested journalist Shafik Rehman as he collected some information about prime minister's son Sajeeb Wazed Joy's involvement in siphoning off Tk 2,500 crore.



"What's the source of the money? The country's people want to know what amount of money they have in this way," she questioned.



In response to Khaleda’s comments, Joy, also the prime minister's ICT affairs adviser, through a status on his Facebook page on Sunday asked Khaleda to inform him about the details of the Tk 2,500 crore she claimed to have kept in his account in the USA as per a case document.



Joy also branded Khaleda as a liar and thief, and asked her not to malign the Bangabandhu's grandson.

Reacting to Joy’s comments, Rizvi said, “I was a student of the college where Joy’s father Dr Wazed Miah had studied. I heard he was a very gentleman and well-behaved one unlike Joy.



The way he made indecent remarks on country’s one of the prime leaders and ex-prime minister Khaleda Zia that manifests he has not been like his father.”

Mentioning that Joy had not come to Bangladesh from the USA when his father was very sick before his death, the BNP leader said the son who had little interest to be bedside his ailing father can defame any revered person.



He also said it is the responsibility of the prime minister’s son to prove whether allegation of laundering Tk 2,500 crore is wrong or right. “Why the allegation of corruption is raised against him before entering politics.”



Rizvi also said no one knows about educational qualification of Joy or what degrees he has obtained on which subjects though he is called an IT expert. “There’re some steps -- graduation, post-graduation, doctorate and post-doctorate-- to judge one’s educational qualification.



He is called an IT expert but no one knows how he’s obtained this expertise. We don’t know whether he has any degree on computer science or IT.”

Stating that AL is champion of making the lies as truth, he said, “So, our nephew (Joy) has successfully learned the Awami League’s culture of telling lies and insulting others.”



“Though our party leaders criticise prime minister Sheikh Hasina in a harsh language, they don’t use any indecent words,” Rizvi claimed.



Referring to newspaper reports that the government is going to amend the Press Council Act, he said the main motive behind this move is to snatch the remaining press freedom now prevails in the country. “They’re going to amend the law to completely gag the newspapers.”



The BNP leader also said if the act is amended the word democracy will be disappeared from the country for ever, establishing the ‘freedom of Hasina’.



Speaking at the programme, party standing committee member Nazrul Islam Khan urged the party men to strengthen their organisational capacity forging a strong unity among them.



He also called upon them to mobilise public support against the government by carrying out mass contacts to realise their demand for a national election under a non-party administration.



