2017-04-17 18:28:29+06:00
Straight From Kitchen Episode 20 | The Way Dhaka
Potato, Prawn and Perfection

The recipes have been prepared by Gregory A. Gomes, Executive Chef, The Way, Dhaka.

** Pears of Potato

Ingredients:

Mashed potato- 100 gm.



Cashew nut- 1 teaspoon



Raisins- 1 teaspoon



Boiled Chicken- 50 gm (diced)



Bread Crumbs- 100gm



Plain Yogurt- 25 gm



Cilantro- 1 teaspoon



Sugar- 1 teaspoon



Salt- As per taste



Egg- 1 piece



Nutmeg- ¼ teaspoon



Fried Onion- 1 teaspoon

For Decoration:

Crispy salad, cucumber,



Cinnamon Stick- 2 pieces.

For Dressing:



Double cream- 10 gm



Chickpeas- 5 gm (crushed)



Cilantro- 1 tea poon

Procedure:

Take the mashed potato, cashew nuts, raisins, boiled Chicken, cilantro, ½ an egg, nutmeg, and fried onion and take them in a bowl, mix, and make pear shapes out of the dough. Beat ½ an egg and dip the pears in it. Coat them in breadcrumbs and deep fry. Mix the plain yogurt, double cream, chickpeas, cilantro and sugar for dressing. Serve with crispy salad and cinnamon stick for decoration.

**Grilled King Prawn

King size prawn serves with capsicum, onion and grilled tomatoes, Nasi Goreng rice and garlic and chilli salsa.

Ingredients:

Large King Prawn- 3 pieces



Dijon Mustard- 1 teaspoon



Lemon Juice- 1 teaspoon



White pepper- ¼ teaspoon



Ginger and Garlic Paste- ½ teaspoon



Salt- As per taste



White pepper- ¼ teaspoon



Olive oil- 1 tablespoon



Capsicum- ½ Red, ½ Green



Onion- 1 large piece (diced)



Tomato- 1 large piece (diced)



Olive oil- 1 tablespoon extra virgin

Nasi Goreng:



Basmoti Rice- 120 gm.



Shrimp Paste- 1 teaspoon



Dry Chilli- ¼ teaspoon



Spring Onion- few leaves



Soy sauce- ½ tablespoon.



Salt –as per taste

Dill Sauce:



Fresh dill- 1 tablespoon (roughly chopped)



Garlic- 1 teaspoon (chopped)



Onion- 1 tablespoon (chopped)



Dijon Mustard- 1 teaspoon



White pepper- ½ teaspoon



Salt- as per taste



Single Cream- ½ cup

For Decoration:

One large potato



Crispy Garden salad



Lemon rings

Procedure:

Mixed the lemon Juice, white pepper, ginger and garlic paste, salt and dijon mustard and marinade the prawns for ½ hour. Then, grill the prawns till well cooked. Place the capsicum, onion and tomato beside the grilled prawns. Mix the garlic, onion, single cream, dijon mustard and salt thoroughly and finish off by adding fresh dill to make dill sauce. Serve the grilled prawns with Nasi Goreng rice, dill sauce, and crispy salad.