None
Kenya urged to cut tariff rate on Bangladeshi knitwear products
The country’s knitwear manufacturers on Saturday urged the authorities of Kenya to cut the rate of tariff on Bangladeshi export products to increase bilateral trade and business between the two countries.

Leaders of the Bangladesh Knitwear Manufacturers and Exporters Association, in a meeting with a 10-member delegation of Kenya at the BKMEA Dhaka office, said that among the African countries Kenya could be the rising market for Bangladeshi knitwear products but 25 per cent imposed tariff was the major obstacle to increase the business.

The BKMEA leaders said in 2015, Kenya imported knitwear products worth $406 million but Bangladesh could export only $0.38 million of such goods to Kenya due to the high tariff.

‘We are interested to increase the trade and investment between the two countries and we will request the authorities of Bangladesh and Kenya to sign a deal regarding technical cooperation,’ BKMEA first vice-president AH Aslam Sunny said.

He urged Kenya’s investors to make investment in the special economic zones and proposed Knitwear Village in Narayanganj to increase the trade and investment between the two countries.

There is immense potential to increase trade and business between Bangladesh and Kenya and both the countries could be benefited if they set up a joint venture company in Bangladesh, said Munshi Shafiul Haque, additional secretary to the commerce ministry.

Bangladesh is one of the attractive countries for making investment as the utility services including power and gas are available here, said Mafruha Sultana, vice-chairman of the Export Promotion Bureau.

Steve Odua, assistant director of the ministry of industry trade and cooperatives of Kenya, also invited Bangladeshi investors to set up a joint venture company in his country.

He said that readymade garment was the signature product of Kenya.

Later on, the visiting Kenya delegation held another meeting with the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association in the city.

More about: