None
Lost glory of jute to be regained: PM
Prime minister Sheikh Hasina, textiles and jute minister Md Emaj Uddin Pramanik, industries minister Amir Hossain Amu, state minister for textiles and jute Mirza Azam and parliamentary standing committee on the textiles and jute ministry chairman Saber Hossain Chowdhury are seen along with 10 award-winning jute exporters at a programme marking the National Jute Day-2017 held at the auditorium of the Krishibid Institution, Bangladesh in Dhaka on Thursday. — Focusbangla photo

Expressing her firm hope that the lost glory of jute will return with the present government’s various steps, prime minister Sheikh Hasina on Thursday said the conspiracies to destroy the ‘golden fibre’ will not work anymore.

‘I think the conspiracies hatched to destroy the jute sector won’t work anymore,’ she said while addressing a programme marking the National Jute Day-2017 held at the auditorium of the Krishibid Institution, Bangladesh in the city.

The Jute Day was observed in the country on March 6.

The prime minister said her government has taken various steps so that the lost glory of jute could be restored. ‘The fate of country’s people, including farmers and workers, are related to it. So, we’re giving due importance to it. The golden days of jute will make a comeback.’

Hasina said like the export potentials of RMG and ICT sectors, there is also a bright scope for boosting jute production and also its exports through diversified jute products.

Opportunities are there to boost the diversified use of jute through conducting researches, Hasina said adding Bangladesh has also invented polytene from jute which would not pollute environment as it will get mixed with soil.

‘We’ve taken various steps to preserve jute through using modern technology and help our farmers produce this golden fibre comfortably....We hope the golden days of jute will make a comeback,’ she said.

Hasina laid emphasis on diversification of jute and jute products saying a new possibility has been created for the improved cultivation of jute following the discovery of its gene mystery through jute genome sequencing by Bangladeshi scientists led by Dr Maksudul Alam.

The prime minister said research is now going on to boost the production of jute, increase its diversified use and enhance various area-wise productions.

About the impact of jute on the economy, she said, nearly four crore people are directly or indirectly engaged in the process of production, sales and exports of jute goods and cultivation of jute.

Hasina regretted that the jute sector had witnessed massive disasters like other sectors after the brutal assassination of the Father of the Nation in 1975 as most of the jute mills were then sold out at nominal price.

The prime minister said the BNP-Jamaat alliance fulfilled the last episode of that attempt of destroying the jute sector by closing down the biggest Adamjee Jute Mills in 2002, pushing nearly 26,000 workers into untold miseries in the name of golden handshake.

Elaborating her government’s various steps to give the sector a new life, Hasina said as per the election manifesto of her party, steps have been taken to provide high-yielding seeds, fertilisers, insecticides and necessary materials to farmers in addition to steps taken to carry out research.

Besides, the government has taken initiatives to reopen the closed jute mills, including Khalishpur jute mills in Khulna, Quomi Jute Mills in Sirajganj that created opportunities for about 21,000 new employments, she said.

Hasina mentioned the use of jute as raw materials inside box, body and other parts of cars of various renowned and modern brands while jute geo-textiles of the country is used in the construction of barrage and roads and controlling landslides.

Besides, modern luxury furniture materials and other products like shoe, sari, selwar-kamiz, suit, shirt, pant and other cloths made of jute are being displayed in different parts of the world, she said.

Earlier, the prime minister handed over awards to different organisations and personalities in 10 different categories for their contributions towards advancing the jute sector.

She also distributed prizes among the winners of essay competition who participated from various educational institutions in eight administrative divisions, marking the National Jute Day 2017.

Chaired by textiles and jute minister Md Emaj Uddin Pramanik, the function was addressed, among others, by industries minister Amir Hossain Amu, state minister for the textiles and jute ministry Mirza Azam, parliamentary standing committee chairman on the ministry Saber Hossain Chowdhury.



