None
PM to raise jute anti-dumping duty issue with Modi
A file photo shows workers arranging jute sacks at a factory on the outskirts of Dhaka. Prime minister Sheikh Hasina would request the Indian government to remove the anti-dumping duty on jute goods of Bangladesh during her visit to India next month. — New Age photo

Prime minister Sheikh Hasina would request the Indian government to remove the anti-dumping duty on jute goods of Bangladesh during her visit to India next month.

She would raise the issue about withdrawal of the anti-dumping duty during the official talks with her counterpart Narendra Modi on April 8, said commerce ministry officials on Thursday.

Hasina would be in New Delhi on a four-day state visit starting from April 7.

Indian finance ministry on January 5 imposed the duty ranging from $19 to $351.72 a tonne on jute goods import from Bangladesh for five years following an investigation of India’s Directorate General of Anti-Dumping and Allied Duties into an alleged dumping of the products in the Indian market by Bangladeshi exporters.

Bangladesh foreign secretary M Shahidul Haque raised the anti-dumping duty issue before Indian external affairs secretary S Jaishankar last month when he visited Dhaka for preparations of Hasina’s India visit.

Jaishankar assured that he would discuss the issue with the Indian commerce ministry. Following the meeting, the two sides have included the anti-dumping duty issue in the agenda for the talks of the two prime ministers, officials said.

The anti-dumping duty hit hard Bangladesh’s export earnings from its neighbouring country against products like jute yarn, twine, sacks, bags and fabrics.

The government of Bangladesh, in the meantime, has also taken a decision for seeking a review of the anti-dumping duty and asked the Bangladesh Tariff Commission to take necessary preparations for filing review applications with the Indian authorities concerned.

The government also suggested aggrieved exporters to file appeals with the Indian authorities against the imposition of duty.



