None
SAFTA trade resumes after 3-month limbo
Trade under the South Asian Free Trade Area has formally resumed on Tuesday after a three-month disruption in absence of legal support.

Trade with SAARC countries under SAFTA severely hampered, particularly with India, from January 2017 due to discontinuation of validity of SAFTA in Bangladesh following expiry of the related statutory regulatory order (SRO) issued by the National Board of Revenue, traders and officials said.

The SRO, issued in April 2015, expired on December 31 and the revenue board updated it, they said.

Importers having SAFTA Rules of Origin Certificate would enjoy the reduced duty facility on import of products from the member countries of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation.

They said that some importers could avail the benefit by submitting bank guarantee during the period while most of the importers could not as customs houses did not allow the benefit.

Trade under the agreement will go on smoothly from now on as the revenue board on Tuesday amended the SRO with retrospective effect from January 1, a high official of the NBR said.

He said that it took long time to amend the legal framework due to delay in completion of procedures including getting opinion from the commerce ministry.

Under the SAFTA agreement, traders of the South Asian countries— India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan, Maldives and Afghanistan— get duty concession in case of import and export within the region.

Bangladesh in 2015 reduced the customs duty to the range of between 0.675 per cent and 7.1875 per cent for 2015 and between zero per cent and the highest 5 per cent for 2016 on 4,609 products for trade under the agreement.

According to the latest amendment, the duty rate has been fixed ranging from zero per cent to 5 per cent for the product.

The products include raw materials, intermediate, and finished and luxury products like readymade garment, footwear, foods, fruits, luxury items like electronics products and machinery items.

The products under the sensitive list that contains most of the important products in terms of protecting domest ic industries and revenue collection of the country are kept out of duty reduction list in line with the agreement.

NBR officials said that that the move was taken as part of implementation of a SAFTA agreement and to encourage intra-regional trade among the SAARC nations.

Under the SAFTA agreement which came into effect from January 2006, member countries were supposed to bring down the customs duties to 0-5 per cent by 2016.





More about: