None
PM for consensus among three organs of state
Prime minister Sheikh Hasina on Saturday laid high importance on consensus and good relations among the three state organs which have to work as complementary to each other. ‘Here we expect a situation where the three organs of the state — executive, legislature and judiciary — would not supersede each other or show their strength to each other,’ she said.

The three organs should have respect to each other, she said while inaugurating the newly constructed Judges Complex, a residential complex for Supreme Court judges, in Dhaka.

‘A nation cannot function if we take the situation to the point of “obey and disobey” the decision of each other,’ she said adding that all the three organs should function in a planned manner to run the state properly.

The prime minister said that every constitutional body has to exercise power in public interest. We should not do anything which may disrupt public interest or create conflict with others, she added.

Chief justice Surendra Kumar Sinha attended the function as special guest. Housing and public works minister Mosharraf Hossain was in the chair while law minister Anisul Haq was present as a guest.

Public works ministry secretary M Shahidullah Khandakar gave the welcome address.

Sheikh Hasina extended her thanks to the judiciary for their courageous delivery of the judgment in Bangabandhu Murder Case and also for successful trial of the notorious war criminals of 1971 saying that every verdict was a milestone making the journey of Bangladesh smoother as an independent nation.

Pointing out the long process of formulating a law, the prime minister said that elected representatives of the people were entitled to frame laws in public interest. ‘If any law is declared null and void by a two-member bench then all efforts behind the process goes in vein,’ she said adding the matter should be considered more carefully.

Sheikh Hasina said that the residential complex was constructed considering the safety and security of the judges as well as modern housing facilities. Same steps are being taken at the district and upazila levels, she added.

The prime minister said that the government was taking steps for trial of notorious criminals through video conference between the prosecution and the defense from courts and jails.

The prime minister unveiled the plaque of the 20-storey Judges Complex consisting of 76 flats, built on 1.5 acres of land in city’s Kakrail area.

In May 2011, the prime minister laid the foundation of the complex built at a cost of around Tk 174 crore.

Later, the prime minister inaugurated 25-storey commercial building of Bangladesh Shipping Corporation at Rajuk Avenue in the city.

More about: