None
Vested quarter out to create rift between govt, judiciary: CJ
Chief justice Surendra Kumar Sinha on Saturday alleged that a vested quarter was out there creating distance between the government and the judiciary.

‘A vested quarter is there engaged in an evil design to create a distance between the government and the judiciary, and this is how they’re creating misconceptions among people with wrong information,’ he said.

The chief justice said this while addressing a function inaugurated by prime minister Sheikh Hasina.

Sinha said the government made some very important decisions regarding the judiciary a couple of days back, but the chief justice, as the guardian of the judiciary, was not kept in the loop.

‘Giving totally wrong information and hiding the facts, these decisions have been realised from the head of the government,’ the chief justice said adding, ‘there wouldn’t have been any misunderstanding had there been discussions with the chief justice prior to making the decisions on such important matters.’

The chief justice, however, did not elaborate the matters he was referring to.

The chief justice said the civilisation of a country flourish on the capability and independence of its judiciary. ‘In other words, the absolute scale to measure government’s success is the capability and independence of the judiciary.’

He also mentioned that maintaining a balance among the three organs of the state was the part and parcel of the constitution, and it was the judiciary that would help maintain the balance.

Sinha said each organ of the state must discharge its duty within the structure of the existing laws and the constitution.

‘Sometimes, while performing duties there could be cold relations among different organs of the state. If this is considered positively, the creativity will develop in each organ. This will help a lot establish the rule of law and ensure the welfare of people.’

He said the judiciary played very an important role in strengthening democracy in the country.

Sinha said the biggest challenge to the judiciary was the huge backlog of cases and the inadequate number of judges.

In India, he mentioned, there were 18 justices for one million people, whereas the number is 10 in Bangladesh. ‘There’s no structural facility for these fewer number of judges.’

The chief justice said there were seven judges at the Appellate Division while 85 at the High Court division. Among the 85 judges, three are working at international crimes tribunals, while four are seriously ill. ‘As a result, I often face trouble in forming benches.’

He also said the situation would turn worse when these seven judges would retire in 2017.

Sinha alleged that although the government introduced digitisation in all divisions, departments and ministries, the judiciary was left out. ‘We’ve taken an e-judiciary project, but the project remains stalled for unknown reasons,’ he said.

He sought the prime minister’s intervention in this connection.

The chief justice said the judiciary always discharged its duties at crucial times of the government, and hoped that the pro-liberation government would help it perform its duties in a stronger way.

The prime minister would see the judiciary as hers, he hoped.

More about: