None
DIFE develops 4 factory inspection apps
A file photo shows a garment factory building in Dhaka. The Department of Inspection for Factories and Establishments has developed four mobile applications for factory inspection with the aim of ensuring effective and transparent inspection at the country’s industrial units. — New Age photo

The Department of Inspection for Factories and Establishments has developed four mobile applications for factory inspection with the aim of ensuring effective and transparent inspection at the country’s industrial units.

The names of the apps are: Paridarshok Parikkroma (inspectors’ rotation), Labour Inspection Management, DIFE Information Management and Digital Reporting.

Inspectors will put data related to factory inspection and labour situation at the factories they will inspect in the apps and the information will be available to the DIFE officials concerned instantly,

Syed Ahmed, inspector general of the DIFE, told New Age.

He said that all the activities of the department would be carried out online and there would be little scope for manipulating inspection reports by factory inspectors.

Paridarshok Parikkroma app will track the location of factory inspectors.

Inspectors will put information and photos of their locations in the app during inspection at any factory.

Paridarshok Parikkroma and Labour Inspection Management apps have been developed based on the factory inspection checklist.

During a factory inspection, inspectors will give input in the apps as per the checklist and the apps will automatically identify the area/areas of deviation from laws at the factory.

DIFE Information Management app will be a digital register of the department and it will contain licences of factories and detailed information on the units.

DIFE officials from districts across the country will put data in the Digital Reporting app as per the format and it (the app) will create report using the data automatically.

‘The applications have been developed with the support of the International Labour Organisation and I hope all the four apps

will be launched in March this year,’ Syed Ahmed said.

He said that the DIFE developed the apps to speed up factory inspection as well as to ensure transparency in the process.

Once all the officials of the department prepare reports using the apps, there will be no scope for changing anything in the reports to favour anyone, the DIFE chief said.