None
Illegal billboards still pose serious risks
A billboard has been setup on the rooftop of a building near Khilgaon rail crossing in Dhaka, posing serious risks for people’s life and property with the approach of the month of nor`wester. — Sanaul Haque

Several hundred illegal billboards and hoardings are still displaying advertisements in different areas of the city posing serious risks for residents’ life and property with the approach of the month of nor`wester.

Local people said that in different crowded areas of the capital the billboards were set up without weighing the risks to public life.

The haphazard billboards along with their steel-made support structures might collapse on pedestrians or vehicles because those were in bad shape.

People feared that deadly incidents might take place as it happened in the past during thunderstorm and heavy rainfall in the month of April.

At least 15 people were killed and 50 others injured from billboard collapse in the city since 2010, according to reports. Of them, two were killed in Kuril Bishwa Road area of the capital on June 15, 2006.

On the other hand, another billboard collapsed over four vehicles in Gulshan on March 15, 2010, leaving two people dead.

Local people alleged that in many cases some officials of the two city corporations, ruling Awami League men and law enforcement agencies were handling these illegal billboards for money.

Dhaka South City Corporation and Dhaka North City Corporation officials said all the outdoor advertisements including billboards, hoardings, banners, mega-signs, posters, and graffiti writings were illegal as the city coeporations had banned these since July 2015.

DSCC chief revenue officer (acting) Yusuf Ali Sarder however denied the allegation and said they had removed several hundred such structures over the years.

‘We could not remove some billboards on the roof of buildings where we cannot reach with our crane,’ he said.

DNCC chief waste management officer Commodore MA Razzak said they were running continuous drives against the billboards.

The city corporation in August last year submitted a progress report to the High Court describing their initiatives against the illegal advertisements as HC directed them in 2012.

In the report, they said they had removed more than a lakh illegal advertisements from the public areas.

DNCC and DSCC officials said city corporations earned about Tk 15 crore lastly in 2014-2015 from 1300 structures which they had permitted.

Bangladesh Outdoor Advertisement Owners Association general secretary Mohammad Mizanur Rahman said the advertisement farms leased out land for billboards for years.

Some structures were not removed as their agreements were not over.