None
Migrant workers need to be trained in diverse fields
THE issue of Bangladeshis getting to other countries on job is caught between the problem of high migration cost of unskilled labourers associated with low earning and the prospect of higher earning of skilled labourers with an associated lack of efforts on part of the government. In the meanwhile, because of its focus on sending unskilled migrant workers on job abroad, Bangladesh is increasingly coming to be known as a source of unskilled labourers, which may also play a role in the unwillingness of other countries to seek skilled labourers from Bangladesh. This has further been consolidated by the lack of government efforts in training prospective migrant workers into skilled human resources and in sending them abroad on job for higher earnings. While the government is struggling to bring down migration cost for unskilled labourers, it also fails to cash in on the fact that the migration cost is less, almost nominal, for skilled labourers, with almost double the earning with the advantage that skilled labourers can choose their destination countries. Skilled migrant labourers also are reported to be facing almost no problems in destination countries.

All this calls out the government on putting in more efforts both to bring down the cost of migration for unskilled labourers and to train prospective migrant workers into skilled human resources. While the government struggles to bring down migration cost and to take action against recruiting agencies cheating or fleecing migrant workers, a ranking expatriates’ welfare and overseas employment ministry official sought to explain that they would take action against recruiting agencies charging unduly high migration fees or cheating workers if the victims would lodge complaints. But when a large number of migrant workers are reported to have been fleeced or cheated, why then no one has ever filed a complaint? It appears that the complaint lodging mechanism is either flawed or not much publicised. It could also be the case that the victims have lost faith in the process that could earn them redress. It is now for the government to look into the issues in earnest and take steps accordingly, to the benefits of migrant workers who play an important role in the economy by way of their remittances. While the government should lift its finger high enough to protect the interest of the poor migrant workers, who arrange for the money to pay for their migration cost, mostly, by selling their homestead or taking loan on high interest rate, it should also try to arrange for the training to build a skilled human resource base so that people could pay less and earn more, with the added advantages, on job abroad.

It has often been reported in the past that the government has taken up a project to train 2,00,000 prospective migrant workers into skilled human resources at 70 technical training centres. The initiative is hardly talked about of paying any dividend. The government, under the circumstances, must increase its training facilities credibly to produce skilled labourers and professionals in diverse fields for overseas jobs.

More about: