None
No room for leniency in drive against transports charging extra
THE untold sufferings of passengers on Sunday amid a shortage of transports and an utter confusion over the rate of fare on the streets in the capital caused by the Bangladesh Road Transport Authority’s ongoing drive against buses, charging extra money and indulging in other irregularities, is although unacceptable and discouraging, but not surprising. As New Age reported on Monday, thousands of passengers remained stranded at different bus stoppages as fewer buses and minibuses plied the streets with other transports away from roads in their bid to dodge the drive. Those who had had the chance to get into any bus had to haggle with the conductors over the fare which in most cases were charged beyond the government –fixed rate. Given the round-the-year apathy of the authorities concerned in dealing with this kind of problems plaguing the country’s transportation system, the ineffectiveness of this drive should come as no surprise, as we have seen such drives in the past stopping abruptly, leaving the system in the same dreadful condition.

Many buses charge extra money in the name of ‘seating’ or ‘gate locked’ services which is illegal, although it is mandatory for all Dhaka city service buses to follow the government-fixed fare chart, according to BRTA officials. There are also allegations that a section of powerful transport owners are trying to foil the drive in their bid to reap extra money. Needless to say, charging extra money by transports hits hard especially the fixed- and low-income people, who have already been reeling under unabated rise in the prices of essential commodities since the incumbents took office. It is also pertinent to mention here that the genuine income of these people has hardly seen any considerable rise meanwhile. Moreover, experts are of the opinion that it is the passengers who suffer the most due to the sudden shortage of public transports, as is usually the case, since the government has failed to make any alternative transports available especially through the Bangladesh Road Transport Corporation buses before undertaking such drives. Such inefficient and mismanaged drives are problematic since it only points to a disquieting indifference on part of the government towards the drive itself, as well as the public in general.

Failure of this kind of drives on city roads should make the government astute enough to realise that sporadic drives of this sort cannot resolve the problem arising from charging extra money from commuters on roads; to ward off this menace from bus operators will require sustained round-the-year rigorous action and surveillance instead of conducting irregular drives. Furthermore, as city bus operators have hardly complied with the government fare chart earlier it is imperative for the authorities to sit with the transport owners to ferret out a comprehensive and justifiable transport fare chart that must be followed by all, which can facilitate removal of the problem of transportation fare in no time.

More about: