None
Myanmar must uproot Yaba factories in border areas
MAYANMAR’S reluctance or go slow policy to shut down its Yaba factories are becoming a cause of significant concern for Bangladesh as increasingly alarming number of young people are becoming addicted to Yaba (a mixture of caffeine and methamphetamine, sometimes with heroin. According to most recent drug abuse report of Department of Narcotics Control nearly 10 per cent of outpatients are visiting the country’s hospitals with cases of addiction-related complications involving Yaba, Phensedyl, heroin, marijuana and other substances and primary consumer or victim of these narcotic substances are the young generation. On the basis of different data and statistics, it is estimated that the number of addicts in Bangladesh is more than six million who spend over Tk 70 million every day on illegal narcotic. International narcotic control bodies as well as Bangladesh government have suggested that drugs like yaba, heroin, marijuana, and cocaine are smuggled into Bangladesh from Myanmar, India, Vietnam, Laos, and Thailand. Considering the oversaturated market of yaba in Bangladesh from Myanmar, the government has sought cooperation from Myanmar and asked them to shut-down yaba factories in border areas. Disappointed at the Myanmar government’s response, home minister on Monday, in a meeting with Chittagong district law and disciplinary committee informed that representatives at different levels are talking to the Myanmar side so that yaba tablets cannot enter into Bangladesh. While the government’s determination to control drug smuggling is ensuring, Myanmar’s disregard on the matter is not neighbourly at all.

Despite the fact that neither yaba nor phensydel is produced in Bangladesh, the people of the country are exposed to severe damage due to cross-border smuggling of drugs from the neighbouring countries. The drug traffickers are smuggling yaba to Bangladesh through the rugged frontiers of Chittagong region close to Myanmar. Tensions in recent years sparked repeatedly visibly over the yaba smuggling on Bangladesh-Myanmar borders when paramilitary border forces of the two countries mobilised extra troops on the frontiers. According UN Office on Drugs and Crime, the Military-ruled Myanmar’s rebel ethnic groups are increasingly cashing in on their illegal drugs hordes on expectations of political crackdown. Therefore, Bangladesh government’s call to Myanmar to uproot yaba factories was a legit. The Myanmar government’s non-response to this request shows its lack of commitment to control narcotics in global, regional and national level on political and profiteering considerations.

Local and international agencies have repeatedly insisted that the drug menace cannot be contained by Bangladesh’s effort alone. It requires a regional approach. Therefore, Bangladesh government should mobilise international support and report the issue of Myanmar’s reluctance or go slow policy on narcotics control in different international forums including South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation and Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation. In addition, the home ministry should look into the allegation of open yaba market and involvement of law enforcing agencies in drug trafficking and take strict actions against anyone involved and prove that it truly has a zero tolerance policy on drug control.

More about: