None
Bangladesh gets dot bangla domain
Bangladesh has finally got the rights on dot bangle domain as own, the Internationalised Domain Name, to express its identity internationally.

‘Internet Corporation of Assigned Names and Numbers Wednesday made the announcement of allocating the .bangla domain in favour of Bangladesh,’ state minister for Posts and Telecommunications Tarana Halim told BSS by phone from Turkey.

Terming the winning of .bangla domain as another milestone for identity, she said: ‘It’s one more achievement of Bangla language after endorsing February 21 as International Mother Language Day.’

Overcoming a long procedural fight, Tarana said, Bangladesh has won it due to the strong role of posts and telecommunication division.

She said Sierra Leone also fought for the .bangla domain.

Relying to a query when B’desh gets the use of .bangla domain would start, the state minister who in now abroad to participate an official event said the process would start as early as possible.

Before going abroad, Tarana sent a letter to ICANN to expedite the root zone delegation process for using .bangla domain and placed it before the meeting of its board of directors.

Earlier, the PDT completed all the procedures from Bangladesh’s side and submitted necessary documents as per their requirement. But, the ICANN Board is taking time to complete the procedures.

In the letter, Tarana wrote that ‘We take pride as ‘Bangla’ speaking nation because we are the only nation who sacrificed lives on 21 February, 1952, for mother languages. Now, it is the International Mother’s Language Day as declared by UNESCO.’

‘The nation’s emotion and sentiment are mingled with this language and also earnestly desire to express it through the cyberspace as well,’ read the letter.

‘I do appreciate if you kindly cooperate to complete root zone delegation process for .bangla IDNccTLD as early as possible,’ she wrote in the letter.

The ICANN issued two domains for Bangladesh which are- dot bangla (.bangla) and dot bd (.bd). However, the dot Bd (.bd) is still active, but the country failed to make it effective in three years after obtaining the permission in 2012.

The domains work as an international identity for a country in the internet world. As an example, if someone enters to a website with the domain name dot US (.US) means the website is from the United States of America. Dot bangla (.bangla) also such Bangladeshi domain recognised by Unicode.

According to the Wikipedia dot bangla (.bangla) is a second country code top-level domain (ccTLD). This domain is meant for web addresses in the Bengali language. It is administered by the Ministry of Posts, Telecommunications and Information Technology of Bangladesh.

Bangladesh Telecommunications Company Limited controls the use of the domain on behalf of the ministry.

Apart from Bangladesh, Indian government applied for the dot bangla (.bangla) domain on behalf of the West Bengal government in 2012. The ICANN issued the domain to Bangladesh after verifying every aspect.