None
City officials’ failure to remove illegal hoarding
DHAKA city people are exposed to serious risks of fatal accidents, particularly during storms, as city authorities have failed to check the mushroom growth of hoardings, many of them illegal and built without proper safety measures. In most cases, the construction did not conform to the minimum engineering requirements and the relevant authorities are either helpless about doing anything or willingly turning the other way, thereby becoming complicit in the illegal business. Since 2010, at least 15 people were killed and 50 others injured in hoarding collapse in the city. Of them, two were killed in Kuril Bishwa Road area in the capital in June 2006 and another hoarding collapsed on four vehicles at Gulshan in March 2010 that left two dead. The problem of illegal hoardings is not for Dhaka city alone. Similar stories of injury have been reported from other cities, including Sylhet and Chittagong. Despite such deaths, hundreds of haphazard hoardings along with their steel-made support structures stood there in different corners of the city, risking lives of pedestrians and vehicles. Evidently, the advertisement displayed on the illegal hoardings also display city corporations’ utter disregard for public safety.

The high number of illegal hoardings is particularly shocking as they stand defying court orders that was passed to take them down. On a number of occasions, over the past few years, the High Court has ordered the city corporations and Rajdhani Unnayan Kartripakkha to take proper initiative to remove unauthorised hoardings from the city. In August 2016, the High Court asked the authorities concerned to explain whether they have taken any step to remove unauthorised hoardings, banners, posters and other publicity materials from establishments in two Dhaka city corporations. In response, the city corporation submitted a progress report to the High Court stating that it has removed more than 1,00,000 illegal structures since 2012. While the reported initiatives deserve applaud, it is inadequate and slow-paced. The city authorities and Rajuk are often proffering excuses of human resource shortage in exercising the oversight of safety standards during the construction and afterwards. While the government should immediately allocate proper technology and adequate human resources to make the removal drives effective, local people alleged that in Dhaka city the business of putting up hoardings has for long been a syndicated affair, the job is monopolised by a small coterie with strong political connection. The authorities concerned should look into the allegations of illegal business involved in the management of roadside hoardings.

The city corporation and other authorities concerned should not only judiciously continue demolishing them and complete the task speedily, the relevant authorities must also formulate rules that would bring private building owners under the ambit of the rules. The authorities concerned must not fail to ensure that public safety is not compromised on profit-making considerations.

More about: