None
Teleplays beset with obstacles
Local television industry is suffering from various obstacles for which it is not always possible to make quality teleplays and drama serials, says veteran actor Masud Ali Khan.

The octogenarian actor in an interview with New Age blamed the TV channels and programme sponsors for creating the

problems.

As a result, he thinks, viewers are losing interest in local TV programmes, especially in teleplays and drama series, and switching to foreign TV programmes.

‘It is not possible to make a quality teleplay or drama serial with the budget the local TV channels offer these days. As a result, the teleplay makers are compromising with quality of the productions,’ said Masud Ali Khan, who was a preview committee member of the state-run broadcaster BTV.

As alternatives, the seasoned actor says, the TV channels have introduced Bangla-dubbed foreign serials, which will destroy the local industry.

‘The TV channels should understand the fact that they will be the ultimate losers if the viewers completely rely on foreign TV channels,’ Masud Ali Khan said.

‘The authoritarian attitude of TV-programme sponsors and advertisement agencies are adding fuel to the fire,’ he said.

He appreciates Federation of Television Professionals Organisation for organising programmes demanding change of the situation.

‘My age and physical condition do not allow me to attend the protest programmes organised by FTPO. But, mentally, I’m with the movement,’ Masud said.

Masud Ali Khan also said that he was not regular in acting these days for his illness.

‘After breaking my waist rib in an accident in 2014, I do not act in many plays these days,’ Masud said.

‘Only a few days ago, I performed in Hafizur Rahman Suruj’s teleplay Prathamato Ami Tomake Chai. I also performed in Hanif Sangket’s popular magazine show Ityadi,’ he said.

Born in 1931, Masud Ali Khan started his acting career on stage. A frontrunner of one of the oldest theatre troupes in the country, Drama Circle, Masud Ali Khan made his debut on the silver screen through Sadeque Khan’s Nadi O Nari.

He acted in many popular teleplays, drama serials and films and won many awards.

More about: