None
TV artistes busy with upcoming election
Clockwise from Top left, Shahiduzzaman Selim, Shahidul Alam Sachchu, DA Tayeb, Siddiqur Rahman Ahsan Habib Nasim and Mir Sabbir.

Television artistes are busy campaigning with only a day left for the Bangladesh Television Artistes’ Association election scheduled to be held tomorrow at Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy.

Fifty artistes are contesting for 21 posts, while 670 voters will cast their votes in the election.

On Tuesday, a friendly candidate-introduction meeting was held at the Music and Dance Centre of the Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, where the candidates got the opportunity to say a few words about their campaigns.

Some of the candidates came up with written manifestos to win hearts and minds of the voters, while others made verbal pledges.

They disclosed how they would build the association as an effective platform for artistes and contribute towards making the struggling television industry vibrant again.

Four actors – Shahiduzzaman Selim, Shahidul Alam Sachchu, DA Tayeb and Golam Mostafa – are competing for the post of president, while three actors – Ahsan Habib Nasim, Mir Sabbir and Siddiqur Rahman – are competing for the post of general secretary.

Azad Abul Kalam, Anisur Rahman Milon, Shams Sumon, Tanvin Sweety, Shirin Bakul, Hillol, Zakia Bari Mamo, Rafikullah Selim, Tarin, Iqbal Babu, Shamima Islam Tusti, Shahid Alamgir and others are competing for different posts like vice-president, assistant general secretary, organising secretary, office secretary and others.

Tania Ahmed has already been elected treasurer uncontested.

Shahiduzzaman Selim, one of the president candidates, tried to attract voters with his 17-point written manifesto which promised to ensure that the interests of artistes were protected and to make the association an effective platform for them.

‘It is high time to work together to make the platform an effective body to ensure that the interests of television artistes are protected,’ Selim said.

Selim wanted to see the association work as a bargaining agent on behalf of the artistes while dealing with TV owners, sponsors and other organisations.

Another president candidate Shahidul Alam Sachchu also hoped to make the association a ‘humanitarian and helpful’ one.

‘The association I dream of will be a registered social welfare foundation, which will guarantee artistes’ dignity, discipline and security’, said Sachchu.

DA Tayeb and Golam Mostafa also promised to work for the welfare of the artiste community.

Three general secretary candidates also promised their effective roles in the association.

‘If elected, I’ll work for the interest of the actors and try to strengthen bonds among the artistes so that we may work together as a unit,’ Mir Sabbir said.

‘The television industry is facing many problems for which the artistes are suffering. We have to work together to solve those issues,’ said Ahsan Habib Nasim.

Seasoned actor SM Mohsin has been appointed as the election commissioner.

The Bangladesh Television Artistes’ Association was formed in 2002 and has since been working as a platform to forward interests of the artistes.