None
Syed Haq’s birth anniv celebrated
Hasan Arif recites a poem at a commemorative programme at Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Tuesday. — Snigdha Zaman

Late poet-playwright Syed Shamsul Haq’s 81st birth anniversary was celebrated through separate programmes on Tuesday at Bangla Academy and Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy.

Both programmes featured discussion and cultural shows as a tribute to the man whose works have enriched almost all branches of Bangla literature.

Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy organised its programme at the National Theatre Hall.

It featured performances by singer Andrew Kishore, who rendered songs penned by Haq, and recitations of Haq’s poems by Hasan Arif, Ahkamullah and Golam Sarwar.

The recitation artistes also presented excerpts from Haq’s plays such as Payer Awaz Pawa Jay, Juddha Ebong Juddha and Irsha.

There was also a dance production titled ‘Tribute to the Playwright: Syed Haq,’ directed by Puja Sengupta.

Earlier, in a discussion session professor emeritus Rafiqul Islam, International Theatre Institute honorary president Ramendu Majumdar, thespian Ataur Rahman, poet Muhammad Nurul Huda, Haq’s widow Anwara Syed Haq, among others were present.

Syed Shamsul Haq’s translation of William Shakespeare’s Hamlet, which he did while in hospital, was launched at the programme. The book was published by Anyaprokash.

Meanwhile, Jatiya Kabita Parishad organised a commemorative programme at the Shamsur Rahman Hall of Bangla Academy in the morning.

The academy’s director general Shamsuzzaman Khan, Jatiya Kabita Parishad president Muhammad Samad, poet Muhammad Nurul Huda, and Sammilita Sangskritik Jote general secretary Hasan Arif were present on the occasion.

‘Despite having a fascination for local culture and tradition, Syed Haq was inspired by world literature and drew heavily on it. His was a life dedicated to literature, and he was active until the last day of his life,’ said Shamsuzzaman Khan.

Syed Shamsul Haq, who won the Independence Day Award for his contributions to literature, was born in Kurigram on December 27, 1935.

He was the youngest writer to be honoured with the prestigious Bangla Academy Award, at the age of only 29, in 1964.

He died on September 27, 2016.