None
PM warns MPs of cancelling NAM flats allocation if misused
Prime minister Sheikh Hasina on Saturday asked parliament members to remain careful about the use of NAM flats and warned that the allocation of a flat would be cancelled if any MP misuses it.

‘The name of those MPs, who have taken allocations but aren’t staying in their NAM flats, would be deleted... Instead of staying in the flats themselves, they would keep personal staff, drivers or domestic helps — it isn’t right,’ she said.

The prime minister issued the warning while inaugurating new residential buildings for officials and employees of the Jatiya Sangsad Secretariat at Sher-e-Bangla Nagar in the capital.

Hasina said that those who took allocation of the NAM flats must stay there, otherwise they will have to live in Nakhalpara MP Hostel. ‘If you remain in the NAM flats, the proper maintenance of the flats would be ensured. I told you earlier in party meetings, today I tell you about it publicly,’ she said.

Asking the Jatiya Sangsad chief whip to take actions against flat-related irregularities, the prime minister said that in case of his failure, actions would be taken against the chief whip.

‘I also seek opinion of the honourable speaker to this end,’ she said.

Jatiya Sangsad speaker Shirin Sharmin Chowdhury was present at the function as special guest, while housing and public works minister Mosharraf Hossain presided.

Jatiya Sangsad chief whip ASM Feroz, parliament secretariat senior secretary Md Abdur Rab Hawlader and housing and public works ministry secretary Shahidullah Khandakar spoke on the occasion.

Responding to comments by the chief whip that many NAM flats were now in dilapidated conditions, the prime minister said, ‘It’s reality that the MPs take allocation of the NAM flats, but don’t stay there and they aren’t careful about their use.’

The premier said that money would be realised as compensation from the MPs whose flats would be damaged.

The prime minister said the government has approved a project involving Tk 120 crore to ensure proper maintenance of the Sangsad Bhaban.

More about: