None
National mime fest ends
Swapnadal stages a mime titled ‘Jadur Pradip’ at Studio Theatre of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Wednesday. — Sourav Laskar

A three-day national mime festival ended at Studio Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy ended on Thursday with staging of three mime performances.

Besides performances Pantomime Movement, Shruti Sangskritik Academy and Gentleman Pantomime, a discussion on the art form was held on the concluding day.

Thespian Dr Enamul Haque was the chief guest while Jhuna Chowdhury, Shahidul Hasan Shamim and Dhiman Saha Jewel were special guests at the session, presided over by Bangladesh Mime Federation president Zahid Repon.

The three-day festival featuring performances of eight troupes and a seminar was organized by Bangladesh Mime Federation marking the World Mime Day.

The festival began on Tuesday. Sammilita Sangskritik Jote president Golam Kuddus inaugurated the festival.

On the opening day, Muktamancha Nirbak Dal, DU Mime Action and Shamuk Theatre entertained the audience by presenting Chor Samagra - a compilation of a number of short mime performances depicting social anomalies.

On Wednesday, a seminar on mime and its prospect in Bangladesh was held at the seminar room of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy.

Rizwan Razon, secretary general of Bangladesh Mime Federation, presented the key-note paper titled ‘Mukabhinayer Shilparup’ at the seminar, which was presided over by thespian Ataur Rahman.

Among others, mime artistes Babul Biswas, Israfil Ahmed, Farzana Mousumi, Nithor Mahbub, Mir Lokman and Bangladesh Mime Federation chairman Zahid Repon spoke at the session.

While mime is still not getting enough attention in Bangladesh the genre has a bright future in the country, observed the speakers.

Following the seminar, theatre and mime troupe Swapnadal presented Jadur Pradip (The Magic Lamp) to entertain the audience at Studio Theatre Hall.

An adaptation of popular fairytale Aladin’s Lamp, the production has been directed by Zahid Ripon.