None
Govt-funded war films fail to hit BO
Stills from Kalmilata, left, and Aguner Parashmoni, which are among the few government produced films those could good business.

Films on the country’s liberation war, made with government funds, have had hardly any impact on the box office.

Most of these films had limited screenings and could not attract much audience as they could not give novel narratives of the war nor could they make authentic presentation of any innovative story, film historians, exhibitors and producers have said.

‘Recently released war-films, made with typical storyline and stereotype presentation, did not depict the war in a way that could attract the contemporary viewers,’ film historian Anupam Hayat tells New Age.

‘Of the recently released war films, Nasiruddin Yousuff’s Guerrilla had atypical depiction of the war through a woman freedom fighter and attracted a wider range of viewers,’ Anupam adds.

Of the war films, Anupam finds, people still recall names such as Ora Egaro Jan, Megher Anek Rang and Sangram, which were made by private producers in the first five years after the independence.

Information ministry records show that in the past six years since 2011 nine government-funded war-based feature films were released when only 17 such films were produced in the past 41 years since the introduction of government grants in 1976.

Between 2011 and 2017 nine war films, including Guerrilla, Amar Bandhu Rashed, Shobhoner Swadhinata, Jibandhuli, Ekatturer Ma Janani, Ekatturer Khudiram, Ajo Chithi Ashey, Lal Sabujer Sur and Bhubanmajhi, all made with government grants, were released.

Two more features and a documentary on the war are in the pipeline, information ministry officials said.

According to the ministry records, government-funded first war film Kalmilata was released in 1981.

Thirteen years later, government produced second feature film on the war Aguner Parashmani in 1994.

Hangar Nadi Grenade (1997), Ekhano Anek Raat (1997) and Rabeya (2008) are other government grant-winning war films.

In addition, department of film and publications produced Ekjan Muktijoddha and Bangladesh Shishu Academy produced two war films, including Amra Tomader Bhulbo Na and Chhana O Muktijuddha.

Of these films, only Shahidul Haque Khan’s Kalmilata, featuring gallantry of the president Ziaur Rahman in the war, and Humayun Ahmed’s Aguner Parashmoni, depicting guerrillas of Dhaka during the war, and Nasiruddin Yousuff’s Guerrilla could earn profits, box office sources said.

Filmmaker and also a member of government grants providing committee Nasiruddin Yousuff observes that failure of most of the government-funded war films is mainly due to the filmmakers.

‘I as a filmmaker admit that it’s our failure that we cannot make use of the government’s intention of producing at least one feature film on the war,’ Yousuff said.

‘It is true that the government fund of Tk 60 lakh is not enough to make a film featuring authentic depiction of battle fields. But, it is enough, I think, for making a quality film featuring sufferings of a family during the war or other innovative stories,’ he said.

He also disagrees with such criticism that nepotism in awarding government grant is to be blamed for the failure.

Film historian Anupam Hayat said that not only the government-funded films but also most of the over 40 war films produced in the past 46 years since the independence by government and private initiatives failed to attract much audience.

‘Most of the commercially successful war films were produced in the first five years after the war as the zeal of the war had gradually cooled down,’ Anupam said.

Not only war films, Anupam says, but also feature-length film in general is struggling in the country for scarcity of the quality cinemas and availability of other sources of entertainments such as TV, computer and Internet.

Film historians and directors suggest that the government should take initiatives for improvement of cinemas and intervene in screening war films at cinemas, TV channels and district branches of Shilpakala Academy and Shishu Academy on a regular basis.

Information minister Hasanul Haque Inu at a programme held at FDC also admitted that more quality films could be made taking advantage of the government’s support.

The minister was not available to make comment on the issue as he was abroad.

Information ministry additional secretary Md Manzurur Rahman said grants awarding process by evaluating only scripts needed to be changed.

‘Many grants winning directors and producers did not keep promises they made while taking grants and produced substandard films,’ he said.

The government is evaluating all these factors for proper utilisation of the grants.