None
Poor preservation destroys liberation war films
Still from Dhire Bohe Meghna, top, and Bagha Bangali.

Prints of many liberation war-based films produced during and after the war in the 1970s have been damaged for poor preservation at Bangladesh Film Archive.

Prominent among the damaged films are Ananda’s Bagha Bangali (1972), Alamgir Kabir’s Dhire Bahe Meghna (1973), Chashi Nazrul Islam’s Sangram (1974), Alamgir Kumkum’s Amar Janmabhumi (1973) and Syed Hasan Imam’s Lal Sabujer Pala (1980).

Print quality and sound of many other war films preserved at the archive are also deteriorating as it lacks the required technical facilities, sources at the archive and filmmakers have alleged.

Filmmakers and film historians say that such a sorry state of the films at the archive is not acceptable as these films have historical importance.

‘Negligence in collection, preservation and restoration of liberation war films is completely unacceptable as these films are documents of the war and specimens of war-based films,’ said filmmaker Syed Salauddin Jaki.

Jaki, who played an important role in founding the archive in 1978, alleged that the archive was run by people who lacked both interest and orientation in film.

At present, the archive has collection of around 50 features and over 100 short and documentary films on the liberation war.

The archive does not have international standard preservation facilities for black and white and colour prints of films in varying degrees of temperature and humidity, film directors and researchers have complained.

As a result, they say, some of the prints do not support audio while some do not give visual support.

The archive officials have always cited bad excuses like inadequate preservation facilities, insufficient manpower and budget for archive, they say.

Veteran film actor Syed Hasan Imam, who made war film Lal Sabujer Pala, accused the archive of having lost the negative and prints of the film.

‘The archive also failed to preserve some other liberation war films,’ Hasan Imam alleged.

The achieve officials also admitted that some parts of Alamgir Kabir’s Dhire Bahe Meghna were not audio-compatible, while picture in some parts of Chashi Nazrul Islam’s Sangram were badly damaged.

The archive officials, however, added that the negatives and prints had been damaged before they could collect them.

Film activist Manjare Hasin Murad suggests that archive officials take initiatives for restoring the damaged historically important films abroad.

‘The archive can send the major liberation war films for digital restoration abroad as the Indians did in the case of Satyajit Ray’s films,’ Murad said.

He also suggests that the archive should improve its preservation system by incorporating technical facilities and technically trained manpower.

Archive director Moslema Naznin said the archive was digitising the prints of war films along with many other films.

She also said preservation standard would also improve when the archive would go to its new office at Agargaon.