None
Limited fund, screening daunt filmmakers
Stills from Bishkanta, top, and Sujoy-er Chithi.

Lack of interest on the part of the producers, exhibitors and TV channels stands in the way of making war-based films, contemporary filmmakers find.

Usually, they say, producers do not show interest to produce such films anticipating business losses while mainstream exhibitors and TV channels find it discouraging to screen them saying such films cannot attract much audience.

Even the government grant-winning films have very limited screening opportunity, they say.

As a result, filmmakers need to collect fund to produce such films and depend on alternative screening channels for the limited viewers.

‘The independent filmmakers these days are coming up with innovative stories to depict the war in their films but are getting frustrated while making them,’ says filmmaker Mridul Mamun.

Mamun, who has made a short film based on a true story of the war titled ‘We Are All Same Race’ featuring a West Pakistani man joining Mukti Bahini (Bengali freedom fighters), said, ‘We need to arrange producers or need to produce films by ourselves.’

Even after making the films, he says, the filmmakers have to struggle to screen them.

Supplementing Mamun, another filmmaker Fakhrul Areefin said, ‘Film festivals are the main option for screening such films on the war.’

‘Exhibitors hardly show interest in screening such films arguing that they might incur financial losses running war-based films,’ said Fakhrul, whose war-based film ‘Bhuban Majhi’ had a limited screening at cinemas in February.

Fakhrul Areefin said he was trying to organise public screening of his film at alternative venues such as district Shilpakala Academy or other private auditoriums.

War-based feature films, however, have limited screening opportunities, said Fakhrul, adding that short and documentary films on the war had no alternative but to be screened only at the festivals.

TV channels are also not interested to screen such films except on Independence Day or Victory Day, the filmmakers regret.

As a result, they say, they never get return of their investment in producing the war films.

However, filmmaker Farzana Boby says, making a war-based film or a documentary is really challenging and requires huge research works.

Boby, who made war-based documentary Bishkanta recently, says, ‘I had to research for around three years to make the documentary. But, now I’m struggling to screen it.’

A very young filmmaker, Fahmida Prema, who has recently made a short film ‘Sujoy-er Chithi’ on the war, said that finding no alternative they uploaded their films on YouTube.

Young filmmakers have been demanding that the government help screening of their films.

‘It’s appreciable that the government is giving financial and technical support to make some films on the liberation war but it should also take initiative for screening them,’ said, Bulbul Bhoumik, maker of a war-based film Ratan.

Information ministry’s additional secretary Md Manzurur Rahman said the government was aware of the problems involving production and screening of the war-based films.

‘We will negotiate with the exhibitors and the TV channels to screen more liberation war-based feature films and documentaries,’ Manzurur said.

But, he said, short films were not under consideration of the government.