None
Cultural organisations mark Independence Day
Clockwise from top, Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy artistes present a dance recital at National Theatre Hall, Loko Natya Gosthi stages a jatra at Liberation War Museum and Sammilito Sangskritik Jote artistes perform at Central Shaheed Minar marking the Independence Day. — Snigdha Zaman

Different cultural organisations and government agencies arranged special programmes marking Independence Day celebrated on Sunday.

Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy’s two-day celebrations held at different venues of the academy included dance, music, experimental theatre, discussion and cultural show.

Sunday’s event held at National Theatre Hall commenced with a discussion where actor Syed Hasan Imam, recitation artiste Ashraful Alam and journalist Naimul Islam Khan spoke. Dancers of the academy staged a dance drama Mahakabyer Appekkhey at the show and Artistes of Bangladesh Academy of Fine Arts presented a dance drama Surjamukhi Nodi at the event. The performances were directed by Urmi Mala Sarkar and Farhana Chowdhury, respectively.

Earlier on Saturday, the academy organised a cultural show at Nandan Mancho.

Liberation War Museum organised a week-long programme featuring discussions and cultural shows on its premises at Segunbagicha.

On Sunday, a day-long cultural performance was held. Child artistes and students of different schools and cultural organisations including Holy Cross School, Nrityajan, Kalparekha, Khelaghar and Moitree Shishudal presented music, dance and recitations at the event.

Loko Natya Gosthi, Manikganj staged a jatra pala titled ‘Ganga Theke Buriganga’ in the evening. Written by Shanti Ranjan Dey and directed by Milan Kanti Dey, the story of the jarta pala goes six centuries back depicting urge for freedom through ruler of Bengal Sultan Shamsuddin Illias Shah’s fight against emperor of Delhi Feroz Shah.

Cultural organisation Chhayanaut held cultural show and documentary screening at its auditorium marking Independence Day.

Artistes of the organisation presented patriotic songs and Manzare Hassin Murad directed documentary Ekhono Ekkattor was screened at the programme.

Sammilito Sangskritik Jote organised a three-day festival at Central Shaheed Minar and Rabindra Sarobar marking Independence Day

The festival was inaugurated on Friday at Central Shaheed Minar.

On Sunday singers Manoranjan Ghoshal, Mahiuzzaman Moyna, Abida Rahman Setu and artistes from Swabhumi Lekhak Shilpi Kendra and Marami Lokogiti Shilpigoshthi presented patriotic songs at Central Shaheed Minar. Hasan Arif, Rupa Chakrabarty and Mahidul Islam recited poems on Liberation War and Maitri Theatre staged a street play at the event.

At Rabindra Sarobar in Dhanmondi, Ferdausi Kakoli, Razia Munni and Chhaya Karmakar performed patriotic songs, while Kazi Arif and Syed Hasan Imam recited poems on Liberation War.

Theatre troupe Subachan staged a street play at the venue.

Bangla Academy organised a discussion programme marking Independence Day at Shamsur Rahman Hall on Saturday. Professor Muntasir Mamun gave a solo lecture at the event.

Bangladesh National Museum organised a film screening session at its auditorium and a children’s art competition at Swadhinata Museum in Suhrawardy Udyan to observe the Independence Day. The museum screened Liberation War based films Aguner Parashmani and Shyamol Chhaya at the event.

Bangladesh Shishu Academy arranged an eleven-day children’s book fair marking Independence Day. The event ended on Sunday with a cultural programme where child artistes from different organisations performed.