None
Govt to turn import-export office into trade dept
The commerce ministry has started initial work to convert the Office of Chief Controller of Imports and Exports to Department of Trade in an aim to bringing tempo in local and international trade-related activities and to make the system more efficient.

The ministry has recently formed a six-member committee headed by the director general of WTO cell of the commerce ministry, Shubhashish Bose, to prepare a feasibility report in this regard.

According to ministry officials, the committee will prepare the report within 30 days from November 8 analysing the activities of trade departments of the neighbouring countries. The first meeting of the committee will be held next week.

‘The issue is still under scrutiny and we have formed a committee to examine the trade departments in this subcontinent to prepare a feasibility report,’ Hedayetullah Al Mamoon, senior secretary to the commerce ministry, told New Age on Saturday.

Trade across the world is getting complicated and now the trade departments look after the trade-related issues worldwide, he said.

‘The committee will conduct a feasibility study considering the world trade whether forming a mature and experienced department in Bangladesh is possible or not,’ the commerce secretary said.

One of the committee members said that the ministry had taken the initiative to conduct the regional and international trade more efficiently, to keep the institutional memory and to expand the scope of work for the trade cadre officers of the Bangladesh Civil Service.

Efficient and technical manpower is important for trade as there are many critical issues like bilateral and multilateral trade and issues of World Trade Organisation are going to be surfaced for Bangladesh, he said.

According to the commerce ministry official, the imports and exports of Bangladesh are being increased and the trade volume in the financial year 2015-16 was nearly $80 billion.

After the graduation of Bangladesh to a middle-income country from a least developed one the trade will increase more and then Bangladesh will have to go for bilateral and multilateral agreements with different countries and regions, he said.

To do the things ministry should form a designated department with required number of skilled officers, the ministry officials said.

More about: