None
Mizu Ahmed dies
Mizu Ahmed

Popular Dhallywood actor Mizu Ahmed, who played villain in over 800 films, died after suffering from heart attack on Monday. He was 64.

The actor had the heart attack while he was travelling by train from Dhaka to Dinajpur to join shooting of a film titled ‘Manush Omanush’.

He was rushed to the Kurmitola General Hospital in the capital where the doctors pronounced him dead, family members said.

He is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son, and numerous well-wishers and fans.

Mizu Ahmed’s namaz-e-janaza was held at Bangladesh Film Development Corporation (BFDC) after juhur prayer and he was buried at his ancestral home in Kushtia.

Born on November 17, 1953 in Kushtia, Mizu Ahmed’s acting career spanned over four decades. His real name was Mizanur Rahman. He was greatly interested in acting since his childhood days.

He debuted in Dhallywood with Trishna in 1978 and quickly emerged as one of the most popular actors in a negative role. Some of his notable films are Surrender, Mohanagar, Boshira, Lal Badsha, Mohila Hostel, Big Boss, Hingsha Protihingsa, and others. He received national film award for his 1992 film Trash.

Mizu Ahmed had his own production house named Friends Movies and produced a number of films under the banner. He was also elected as the president of Bangladesh Film actor’s Association for a term.

Noted actor Misha Soudagar, who completed all the formalities at the hospital after Mizu’s death, said that Mizu stepped into the filmdom when there was shortage of good actors. ‘He enriched the film industry with his lively acting. Besides, he was also a good organiser and stepped forward whenever the industry faced any crisis,’ told Soudagar.

Sudden death of Mizu Ahmed has left Dhallywood in shock and mourning. ‘He was a very good man and artiste. His sudden death was shocking for us. May his soul rest in peace,’ actor Amit Hasan told New Age.

President of the Association of Film Directors Mushfiqur Rahman Gulzar told New Age that Mizu Ahmed was very friendly person and actor. ‘Unfortunately he never acted in any of my films but we were good friends. His demise is a great loss for the industry,’ said Gulzar.