None
World Theatre Day celebrated
Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy stages Debdashi Kamola on Monday. — Snigdha Zaman

Theatre activities celebrated World Theatre Day organising a discussion, awards ceremony and cultural show at National Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Monday.

Bangladesh chapter of International Theatre Institute, Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, Bangladesh Group Theatre Federation and Bangladesh Path Natak Parishad jointly organised the programme along with other countries of the world.

World Theatre Day is being globally celebrated on 27th March since 1962 as a celebration for those who can see the value and importance of the art form theatre, and acts as a wake-up-call for governments, politicians and institutions which have not yet recognised its value to the people and to the individual and have not yet realised its potential for economic growth.

The celebrations programme in Dhaka began with a colourful procession in the afternoon from Bangladesh Mahila Samity to Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy.

ITI Bangladesh chapter president Nasiruddin Yousuff, Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy director general and Bangladesh group Theatre federation chairman Liaquat ALi Lucky, Bangladesh Path Natok Parishad president Mannan Hira, among others, were present on the occasion.

Like the other countries, Bangla translation of the French theatre actress Isabelle Huppert’s World Theatre Day message was read on the occasion.

Isabelle in her message emphasised the necessity of theatre, saying ‘Theatre protects us; it shelters us…I believe that theatre loves us…as much as we love it… Make way for theatre’.

Thespian Ataur Rahman delivered World Theatre Day national message while thespian Dr Enamul Haque delivered a speech on the occasion.

Recently demised diplomat and theatre connoisseur Mijarul Quayes was honoured (posthumously) with World Theatre Day honourary award at the event.

Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy staged Debdashi Kamola based on the traditional gaudiya dance.

The dance drama, directed by Kolkata-based choreographer and dance researcher professor Mahua Mukherjee, depicts the story of a Kashmiri king Jayatir, who visits Bengal region to collect Patanjali—an ancient Sanskrit grammar.

While visiting the region, he watches a dance performance by Kamola — a devotee of Hindu lord Shiva. The two falls in love and tie knot.

As the king of Bengal Jayanta comes to know about Jayatir’s visit to his kingdom, he offers Jayatir to marry his only daughter Kalyani.

Jayatir, who already married Kamola, accepts Jayanta’s proposal and ties knot with the latter’s daughter Kalyani and returns to Kashmir with two wives.

Mukherjee adapted Debdashi Kamola from a story of Rajatarangini (River of Kings), a 12th century book written by Kashmiri historian Kalhan.