None
Grand show features works by leading artists
Famine, lithograph by Quamrul Hassan, (left), Madhabi why in hesitation, acrylic on canvas by Samarjit Roy Chowdhury.

A group art exhibition displaying 55 artworks by 11 eminent artists of the country is underway by Gallery Chitrak in Dhanmondi.

It includes popular and signature works by Shilpacharya Zainul Abedin, Patua Quamrul Hassan, Shilpaguru Shafiuddin Ahmed, Mohammad Kibria, Aminul Islam, Abdur Razzaque, Rashid Chowdhury, Murtaja Basheer, Samarjit Roy Chowdhury, Rafiqun Nabi and Monirul Islam.

Zainul Abedin’s historic famine sketches, Quamrul Hassan’s watercolour paintings depicting various folk motifs, Shafiuddin Ahmed’s prints, Mohammad Kibria’s abstract paintings and Rafiqun Nabi’s tokai caricatures and more are on display at the show.

An oil painting titled ‘Birongona’ by Zainul Abedin is on display at the show. Done in 1971, the work depicts the blurry face of a war heroine without articulating her eyes, nose and lips for portraying a realistic image of torture she faced by Pakistani army and their aides during the liberation war in 1971.

A very vibrant watercolour painting by Quamrul Hassan titled ‘Tree and Bird’, shows a blue tree with white birds on its branches and fish swimming in the water.

Abdur Razzaque’s mixed media on paper drawing titled ‘Tornedo Balachor-2’ depicts dead carcass of cattle scattered in different directions following a devastating tornado.

Rafiqun Nabi’s woodcut print titled ‘A Crow-Chick Fallen from Nest’ shows a tiny baby crow, after falling out from a nest, surrounded by hundreds of its kin. The painting shows the fellow feeling and compassion among the crows in moments of crisis.

The gallery organised the show from its collection and also collecting some artworks from the participating artists and the family members of the deceased artists, organisers said, adding that Chitrak holds a grand show annually featuring works of the leading artists.

The exhibition, which began on March 28, will remain open from 12pm to 8pm till April 20.