None
Theatre depicts Jail Killing Day, aftermath
Bunan Theatre stages Secret of History at Experimental Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Tuesday. — Snigdha Zaman

Featuring the brutal killings of the four national leaders, Bunan Theatre staged a press show of its latest production Secret of History at Experimental Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Tuesday.

The play does not mention names of the four slain leaders neither it mentions names of the killers but the way the play has been presented it indicates that Anan Zaman’s play Secret of History features the brutal killing of four national leaders, including Syed Nazrul Islam, Tajuddin Ahmed, captain (rtd) Mansur Ali and AHM Quamruzzaman at Dhaka Central Jail on November 3, 1975.

The 75-minute production, Secret of History, will have its premiere show on April 5. Directed by Shuddhaman Chaitanya, the play has been influenced structurally by Munier Chowdhury’s Kabor.

Like in Kabor, Secret of History features characters like Neta (leader), Murda Fakir and few others.

The play begins with one of its central characters Neta as he brings the bodies of the four deceased leaders to the graveyard for burial. However, the dead leaders refuse to be buried rather start narrating their tragic stories.

The playwright has incorporated clues in the play to relate the anonymous characters of the play with tragic political history of Bangladesh. For example, the character of Neta can be related with Khandakar Mushtaq Ahmed.

The narrations of the anonymous murdered leaders depicting their contributions to the country and their sufferings in the jail remind the viewers of four national leaders.

The play then introduces the character of an ambitious army major who pronounces his urge for power. The major, it is said, kills a few thousand army members using martial courts to achieve his dream.

Led by fictitious Murda Fakir all the killed army members begin to come out of their graves and they voice that they will not go back to the graves unless they get justice.

Bunan Theatre artistes Tushar Kanti Dey Rajan, Ashraful Bilash, Abu Fahim, Abid Hasan Nirjhar Saatil Raas and others acted in the play.

The set of the play was mostly kept dark, with lanterns lighting it, creating the ambiance of a dark graveyard.

‘The Jail Killing is one of the major tragedies in the country’s history. However, no play has brought the tragedy on stage. I had to research for over six months for producing the play’, playwright Anan Zaman told New Age.