None
Satyen Sen remembered
Udichi artistes present a dance recital at Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Tuesday. — Snigdha Zaman

Udichi founder Satyen Sen was remembered at two separate programmes held at two venues of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy marking the late author-politician’s 110th birth anniversary on Tuesday.

Bangladesh Udichi Shilpigoshthi’s three-day people’s song festival featuring cultural show, discussions, seminar and people’s song competition began at the open field of the academy while Satyen Sen Shilpy Gosthi organised another programme at the academy’s Music and Dance Centre on the day.

Udichi has been organising the event titled ‘Satyen Sen Ganasangeet Utsab o Jatiyo Ganasangeet Protijogita’ annually since 2010 marking birth anniversary of Sen.

Bhawaiya singer Rathindranath Roy inaugurated the festival as the chief guest. Among others, cultural personalities Syed Hasan Imam and Kamal Lohani, people’s song singers from India Amitabh Mukhopadhyay and Purobi Mukhopadhyay were present at the programme.

An album featuring 11 songs penned by Satyen Sen was also released.

Udichi artistes presented a lyrical drama titled ‘Amar Lorai Sobai Aikotaan’. Compiled and directed by Sangeeta Imam, the production protested against government’s plan of setting up a power plant near Sundarbans in Rampal.

Artistes of different branches of Udichi presented people’s songs.

On Wednesday, a seminar on the current state of people’s songs in the

country was held at Shilpakala at 4pm. Artistes from Udichi’s district-level branches also performed at the event.

The festival will conclude today with a programme held at the Shawkat Osman Memorial Auditorium of the Central Public Library. Purobi Mukhopadhyay, Amitabh Mukhopadhyay and Rathindranath Roy will perform at the event.

Satyen Sen Shilpy Goshthi’s programme included a discussion and presentation of people’s song by different organisations.

The organisation also honoured cultural personality Kamal Lohani for his contributions to the cultural arena of the country.

Satyen Sen Shilpy Goshthi also celebrated its 10th founding anniversary on the occasion.