None
People’s songs contributions in movements analysed
Jessore Udichi artistes present a people’s song at Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Wednesday. — Snigdha Zaman

People’s songs have proved to be a pro-people music genre and have expressed the demands and desires of the common people by challenging the powerful quarters in many countries across the globe, said discussants at a seminar held on Wednesday at Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy.

They said the music genre helped generate awareness among the masses on their rights in important historical events in Bangladesh such as the language movement, non-cooperation movement and war of independence and also in various other parts of the world, including Vietnam, Italy, Russia, Africa and Latin America.

The seminar was organised on the second day of the three-day Satyen Sen People’s Songs Festival organised by Udichi Shilpigoshthi marking 110th birth anniversary of its founder Satyen Sen.

The day’s programme also featured awards distribution among winners of people’s songs competition and performances by local and Indian singers and music bands.

Writer Dipankar Gautam presented the keynote paper titled ‘Sur Asurer Dwanda O Ganasangeet’ at the seminar. Udichi president Dr Shafiuddin Ahmed, its vice-presidents Mahmud Selim and Prabir Sardar, Dhaka University music department teacher Sayeem Rana discussed on the paper.

A pro-people music genre, Gautam said, people’s songs played significant role to raise voice against oppression across the globe.

Gautam mentioned the contributions of legendary composers of people’s songs like Bob Dylan, Pete Seeger, Joan Baez, Bob Marley, Pierre De Geyter, Kazi Nazrul Islam, Sukanta Bhattacharya and others in different social and political struggles across the globe.

Following the seminar, winners of national-level people’s songs competition in four groups were given awards and certificates.

Ankur Sarkar received first prize in Ka group contesting with children aged under 12 years, Saurav Das won first prize in Kha group contesting with teenagers and Subrata Das received first prize contesting with adult singers.

Udich Jessore won first prize contesting with different district level branches of the organisation in Gha group.

Music bands Joler Gaan and Madal, a troupe consisting of members from different ethnic groups, then took the stage and presented their songs.

Madal presented songs like Pahari Konya and Putul Nach while Joler Gaan its popular numbers such as Emon Jadi Hoto and Bakul Phul Bakul Phul.

Indian singers Ashim Giri, Amitabh Mukhopadhyay and Purabi Mukhopadhyay also performed.

Amitabh Mukhopadhyah covered Hemanga Biswas’ popular song Shankhachil, Ashim Giri sang Amader Shohorta and Purobi Mukhopadhyay presented Babui Tomar Basa.

Besides, winners of the four groups performed at the programme.