None
Shreya moves Dhaka audience with melody
A pleasant ambience was created through the soothing sound and enigmatic light effects on stage to welcome the music diva.

And the audience’s waiting ended as the ‘Bollywood melody queen’ Shreya Ghoshal took the stage clad in red traditional Indian ghagra and started rendering her famous song Mohe Rang Do.

The effect of the Bollywood playback singer was tremendous on the audience, who had been waiting for two hours to enjoy her performance in the show titled ‘Shreya Ghoshal Melody Night Live in Dhaka’ held on Friday at International Convention Centre Bashundhara.

After presenting the first song, she shared her wonderful experience with Dhaka audience that she gathered in her previous show in 2015.

Perhaps she realised the thirst of the audience and gave her maximum efforts to present most of her famous songs of different tastes and flavor—sentimental, romantic and rhythmic.

Her skill of incorporating the sentiment of every word effortlessly while rendering a song was so influential that she guided the emotion of the viewers with her magical music.

While rendering the popular Bollywood playbacks, Shreya did not dance like film actresses who lip-synced with those songs but made the audience dance with rhythm of songs such as Nazar Jo Teri Lage, Manwa Lage Re, Barso Re and Dhadang Dhang.

The houseful audience joined with her as she sang romantic songs like Jadu Hai Nasha Hai, Wada Raha, Agar Tum Mil Jao Zamana and others.

‘She made me dance with joy and also sentimental poured with emotion,’ said Azra Zabin, a viewer.

Paying tribute to great musician AR Rahman, Shreya presented a medley of songs such as Ishk Bina Kya Marna Yaara, Roja and Tu Hi Toh Meri Dost Hain.

She also covered Lata Mangeshkar’s famous playbacks Lag Ja Gale Ke Phir and Jiya Jale.

A Bengali family descent, Shreya Ghoshal rendered just two Bangla songs at the show, including a contemporary Kolkata playback Jani Dekha Hobe and Rabindra Sangeet Jodi Tor Dak Shune Keu Na Ase.

She was accompanied by another Indian singer Kinjal in some duets such as Radha Teri Chunri and Chikni Chameli.

Kinjal earlier in his solo performance had covered some popular Bollywood playbacks such as Khamoshiya and Kaise Jiya.

Bangladeshi singers like Miftah Zaman, Anika and Pinto Ghosh also performed at the concert jointly organised by Octopi Limited and ATN Events.

Mifta was the first singer of the show, who rendered four songs such as Andhakare Basat Kore, Abak Chander Alo while Anika covered popular contemporary songs such as Tomar Janya and Mon Bhabe Tare Ei Meghla Dine.

Anika and Pinto jointly covered SD Burman’s famous song Takdhum Takdhum Bajai.

Pinto got good response presenting Shah Abdul Karim’s song Kemono Bolibo Ami, PD Baul’s Dil Ki Doya Hoy Na and his original number Kanamachhi.