None
Dhaleshwari Opera: experimentation on Macbeth
Agontuk Repertory artistes perform in the premiere show of Dhaleshwari Opera on Friday at National Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy. — Snigdha Zaman

Many contemporary theatre activists have experimented with Shakespearean tragedies in present settings and Agontuk Repertory’s production Dhaleshwari Opera, premiered on Friday at National Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, is another inclusion to the trend.

The play, written and directed by Pantha Shahriar, presented Shakespeare’s Macbeth in a local setting where an ambitious jatra actor Murad Jang decides to do everything for power, even to kill the owner of the troupe named Dhaleshwari Opera.

Though Macbeth and Dhaleshwari Opera are based on different stories in two different settings, the plots of the two plays are very similar- both Macbeth and Dhaleshwari Opera feature over ambitious protagonists who kill their superiors to achieve power but ultimately embrace tragedy.

Like Macbeth who murders King Duncan at the urging of his ambitious wife Lady Macbeth; Murad Jang, influenced of his love Nayantara, murders Dhaleshwari Opera owner Aghornath.

Nayantara, the lead actress of the troupe, becomes concerned about her prospect as she is no longer in her prime and encourages Murad to take the ownership of the troupe by killing Aghornath.

To establish his position as the owner, Murad Jang kills few others associated with the troupe.

The love and euphoria between Murad Jang and Nayantara soon vanish as Murad begins to doubt Nayantara who, by now, becomes pregnant. Murad humiliates Nayantara, who unable to bear the insults commits suicide, while Murad ends up being shot by another member of the troupe.

The premiere show of the production was enjoyed by a full-house audience.

Pantha Shahriar himself played Murad Jang while Tropa Majumder enacted Nayantara and Shatabdi Wadud performed as Aghornath with their skillful performance captivated the audience during the show.

Among others, Tahnina Islam, Harunur Rashid, Mostafiz Shahin, Tanjum Ara Palli, Rashedul Awal Shawon, Fakhruzzaman Chowdhury, Palash Hendri Sen and Uma Singh Marma played different characters in the play.