None
Mystic songs of Sylhet presented
Indian band Madal presents a song at National Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Saturday.— Sony Ramany

Local and Indian singers entertained the audience presenting mystic songs of legendary bards of the greater Sylhet region at National Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Saturday.

Songs composed by Radharaman Dutt, Shah Abdul Karim, Shitalang Shah, Deen Bhabananda, Hason Raja, Arkum Shah, Durbin Shah and others were presented at the show by local singers Bishwajit Roy, Khairul Islam and artistes of Radharaman Sangkriti Charcha Kendra along with Indian female music band Madal and singer Tapan Roy.

The programme titled ‘Sylhet-er Marami Gaan’ commenced with a group rendition of Radharaman Dutt’s Sajani Tora Jol Anite Jabini by artistes of the Radharaman Sangskriti Charcha Kendra.

The artistes then presented a number of mystic songs like Dutt’s Suradhunir Kinaray Sonar Nupur Pay, Shah Abdul Karim’s Gaan Gai Ar Monre Bujhai, Hason Raja’s Prem Bajare and Shitalang Shah’s Sua Urilo at the programme.

Local up and coming singer Khairul Islam sang Arkum Shah’s Sonar Pinjira Amar and Joban Ali’s popular song Premer Manush Ghumaile Chaiya thake at the show.

Bishwajit Roy, general secretary of Radharaman Sangskriti Charcha Kendra, moved the audience by presenting Radharaman Dutt’s Kemon Achhe Kamolini Rai, Deen Bhabananda’s Mathurar Samoy Gelo and Giasuddin’s Morile Kandisna Amar Day.

Indian singer and folk researcher Tapan Roy performed Hason Raja’s Chharilam Hasoner Nao, Radharaman Dutt’s Shyam Kalia Sona Bandhure and Shah Abdul Karim’s Ar Jwala Soina at the show.

Female folk band Madal took the stage as the last performers of the day. Songs performed by the six-member band included Radharaman Dutt’s Joler Ghatey, Shah Abdul Karim’s Amar Mon Kande, Sheikh Vanu’s Nishithe Jaio Phuloboney, Durbin Shah’s Kaindo Na and few others.

The programme, which was organised by Radharaman Sangskriti Charcha Kendra, also included a short discussion on the mystic songs of Sylhet. Cultural affairs minister Asaduzzaman Noor attended the event as the chief guest.