None
Over commercialisation deals death blow to music industry
Five times National Film Award-winning music director and composer Alam Khan blames over-commercialisation of the music industry for falling music standard.

The creator of many popular playbacks such as Orey Neel Doriya and Manush Rongin Fanush, Alam Khan does not compose songs these days for his ailment.

In an interview with New Age, the seasoned musician lamented for the fall of quality of music and blamed over-commercial attitude of musicians, who do not spend adequate time for composing songs as a result those lack harmony between the lyric and tune.

‘It requires huge research works and rehearsals for creating a quality song. But the musicians these days cannot or do not give much time for composing a song as a result those do not survive,’ Alam Khan said.

Comparing the current trend with his times, Alam said, ‘Back in our days when I was a music director, I did not allow inclusion of even a single song in a film without adequate rehearsal.’

‘I used to allow a singer to record a song only when I was satisfied with perfect synchronisation of voice, tune and lyric. The process required time and I would spend days in the process,’ said Alam Khan, who expresses doubt on whether today’s musicians are dedicated enough to spend long hours when composing a song.

In a career spanning more than six decades Alam Khan has composed around 2000 songs and provided music direction in around 300 films. He was awarded Bangladesh National Film Award for Best Music Director for the films Boro Bhalo Lok Chhilo (1982), Teen Kanya (1985), Surrender (1987), Dinkal (1992) and Ibadat (2009). He also won Best Music Composer Award for the films Bagher Thaba (1999) and Ki Jadu Korila (2008).

‘I became associated with music when I was just 10 years of age. We used to live in the Azimpur Colonoy and I joined a local orchestra ran by a local musician called Ratan,’ said Alam Khan, who was born in 1944.

‘I had my first film break in 1963. I began my career as an assistant music director under Robin Gosh in the film Talash. After a few years, director and producer Abdul Jabbar Khan offered me to do music direction in his next film Kanch Kata Hire (1965) and after that I started receiving regular offers to work in films and never had to look back,’ said Alam Khan.

In the last few years Alam Khan has withdrawn himself from the music industry because of illness. The musician is suffering from lung cancer. However, he still dreams of coming back and compose more songs in future.

More about: