None
Post offices to render e-commerce from Dec: Tarana
Tarana Halim. — New Age file photo

The state minister for posts and telecommunications, Tarana Halim, on Sunday said e-commerce at post offices would be introduced in December as part of modernisation of the Bangladesh Post Office.

‘We are going to offer e-commerce service at post offices in December on a pilot basis, and later it would be expanded in two phases,’ said the state minister while addressing a prize giving ceremony at Postal Auditorium at Dhaka GPO in the morning.

The state minister said the e-commerce would be piloted at a post office in Tongi where online-based services, computer training, mobile wallet services would be available.

‘We are working to turn the post offices into e-commerce hubs, but the process is being delayed a bit due to the involvement of several ministries,’ added Tarana.

About the post office bank, the state minister said the finance ministry wanted to know what type of banking would be operated as per the proposal of posts and telecommunications division.

‘We are interested to run commercial bank and the proposal would be sent to the prime minister tomorrow,’ revealed Tarana.

Besides, about the 118 vehicles of Bangladesh Post Office for courier service, she said 19 vehicles would be on road in January while the remaining would be put into service in April. ‘We've failed to bring the courier vehicles in operation on time for timely fund disbursement due to some bureaucratic process,’ pointed out the minister.

She, however, expressed her determination to make the Bangladesh Post Office profitable before the end of present Awami League government tenure.

Mentioning the fulfillment of revenue goal this year set by the Bangladesh Post Office, Tarana said: ‘Post offices would be profitable before the next national poll.’

To this end, the state minister asked the Bangladesh Post Office officials to change their mindset. ‘Bangladesh Post Office officials have to work like other private operators so people are interested to take service from post offices,’ she added.

Later, Tarana Halim talking to media people said they have directed the cyber cafe, owners to set CCTV camera at their cafes.

‘We've given the directives so nobody could do any subversive activities using cyber cafe,’ she said.

The state minister warned if anybody doesn't follow the directive, license of the cyber cafe, must be cancelled.

Posts and telecommunications secretary Faizur Rahman Chowdhury also spoke on the occasion with Bangladesh Post Office director general Prabash Chandra Saha in the chair.