None
Draft of national film policy gets cabinet nod
The cabinet on Monday approved the draft of ‘The National Film Policy, 2017’ aimed at promoting making of healthy films by upholding the spirit, ideology and history of the War of Liberation as well as country’s culture and tradition.

The approval was given at the regular weekly meeting of the Cabinet held at Bangladesh Secretariat with prime minister Sheikh Hasina in the chair.

Briefing reporters after the meeting, cabinet secretary Mohammad Shafiul Alam said the draft law has been formulated to encourage filmmakers to produce new movies highlighting true history of the 1971 Liberation War and upholding the basic principles of running the state.

‘It was very significant that the proposed draft law was approved by the cabinet on April 3 coinciding with the National Film Day,’ he said.

Alam added: ‘the aim of the draft policy is also to promote making films on ideals, spirit and history of the War of Liberation and provide education and entertainment-oriented movies in the film industry.’

The draft policy would also encourage the people in resisting religious extremism, he said, while bar shooting and use dialogues and activities in the films which could inspire the people in such wrongdoings.

‘Besides, according to the proposed policy, film makers could not show rape scenes in their films,’ Alam said.

About the standard of making films, the Cabinet Secretary said filmmakers must ensure objectivity of the information, their professional morality and neutrality as well as responsibilities for making and distribution of films.

Besides, the dialogue or statement that would go against the state or the people and misleading information could not be used in films.

The cabinet secretary said a 15-member advisory committee to be headed by the information minister would give advices on filmmaking in the light of the National Film Policy.

Moreover, there will be another committee headed by an additional secretary of the ministry of information to make recommendations on export and import of films, he said.

As per the draft policy, Alam said, legal action could be taken to preserve Intellectual Rights and Copyrights on films as well as to prevent their piracy.

‘The new policy would also encourage joint venture investment for the development of the film industry,’ he added.

The cabinet secretary said that ‘certification system’ would be introduced gradually instead of existing ‘censorship system’ in the light of policies of other countries.