None
Shakil, Kalpana to release Tagore music album
Masuda Anam Kalpana and Khairul Anam Shakil.

Renowned Nazrul singers Khairul Anam Shakil and Masuda Anam Kalpana will be opening a new window in their musical careers: the couple is all set to release their first duet Rabindra Sangeet album on May 5 marking the 156th birth anniversary of Tagore.

Recording of the all 12 songs of the upcoming album have already been completed and it will be produced by Laser Vision, Shakil said.

He has rendered six songs including, Gaye Amar Pulok Lagey, Aji Bijan Ghare, Amar Raat Pohalo, Bohe Nirantaro, Ke Dibey Aj Swantona and Khelaghar Bandhte Legechhi while Kalpana has rendered Badalo Dinero Prothomo Kadamo Phul, Ektuku Chhoya Lage, Je Ratey Mor Duarguli and Chakkhu Diye.

The album will contain two duets Aguner Paroshmoni and Tumi Robey Nirabe, Shakil said.

Earlier, the couple released four duet albums, including an album of patriotic songs, an album of Nazrul Sangeet and two albums featuring songs of yesteryears.

For both Shakil and Kalpna the upcoming album is a long cherished one.

‘We have previously released albums featuring Nazrul songs, patriotic and yesteryear songs. The upcoming Tagore album will be the beginning of a new chapter in our musical career’, said Masuda Anam Kalpana, also joint secretary of Chhayanaut.

Though he earned popularity as a Nazrul Sangeet singer, Shakil said, he was introduced to Tagore songs in his childhood days. ‘Though I pursued my career as a Nazrul singer I never lost interest in Tagore songs and render those occasionally at programmes, said Shakil, also a vice president of Chhayanaut.

When he was just ten years old, Shakil said, he stood first contesting at a competition on Rabindra Sangeet in the then Pakistan Television in 1968.

Despite graduating in Industrial Engineering from Leeds University, England, Shakil pursued a profession in singing because of his love for music.

Till date Shakil has released 15 solo albums, including albums featuring Nazrul songs such as Meghe Meghe Andho, Gabhir Nishithey Ghum, Pashaner Bhangale Ghum, Chhilo Chand Megher Parey and Benuka.

Kalpana also has a few solo albums to her credit including Nazrul albums like Jani Pabo Na Tomay, Usha Elo Chupi Chupi and others.