None
National Film Day celebrated
Dhallywood actors, directors participate at a procession brought out on Monday marking National Film Day. — Snigdha Zaman

The local film industry known as Dhallywood celebrated National Film Day organising various programmes including rally, seminar, cultural shows and others at different venues in the capital on Monday.

Information minister Hasanul Haque Inu and seasoned actor Razzak inaugurated the celebrations programme at Bangladesh Film Development

Corporation, which was followed by a colourful procession with participation of Dhallywood actors, directors and crews, including Syed Hasan Imam, Anjana, Mushfiqur Rahman Gulzar, SA Haque Alik and others.

The procession travelled surrounding areas of BFDC. An exhibition featuring camera, various equipment and film posters was organised on BFDC premises.

A seminar analysing the challenges in the contemporary film industry was also organised where film researcher Mohammad Jahangir Hossain presented key note paper in presence of industries minister Amir Hossain Amu.

Meanwhile, the cabinet approved draft of the National Film Policy providing some guidelines in case of making a film, getting censor certificate, copyright and other issues on Monday.

The approval was given at the regular weekly meeting of the cabinet held at Bangladesh Secretariat chaired by prime minister Sheikh Hasina.

Marking the National Film Day, Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy also organised a daylong programme including a seminar, screening of films and a cultural show.

A number of short films including Tareque Masud’s Narasundar and Makbul Hossain’s Raktojoba were screened in the morning at the auditorium of National Art Gallery.

BSA artistes presented popular playbacks and dance recitals at the same auditorium.

A seminar analysing the history of introducing April 3 as the National Film Day was also organised by the academy.

Since 2012, the government has been celebrating April 3 as the National

Film Day marking placement of the East Pakistan Film Development Corporation Bill, 1957 in the provincial assembly of erstwhile East Pakistan on April 3, 1957 by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman as the industries and commerce minister.