None
Syndicate of exhibitors, booking agents blamed
An unholy alliance of vested interested exhibitors and booking agents have been blamed for the trade slump in the country’s film industry at a seminar held on Monday at Bangladesh Film Development Corporation marking the National Film Day.

This syndicate is taking the lion share of the sold tickets and depriving the producers, which ultimately creating an adverse impact on the industry, said Dr Mohammad Jahangir Hossain, former chief information officer, in his keynote paper presentation at the seminar.

Industries minister Amir Hossain Amu was present at seminar as chief guest. Information minister Hasanul Haque Inu, information ministry secretary Martuza Ahmed, BFDC managing director Tapan Kumar Ghosh, Bangladesh Film Directors’ Association president Mushfiqur Rahman Gulzar, Bangladesh Film Exhibitors’ Association president Iftekhar Uddin Nawshad and others were present at the seminar.

In his paper, Jahangir Hossain, showed how over commercial attitudes of booking agents and cinema owners have created slumped trade in the film market.

‘The whole distribution system is controlled by cinema owners and distributors in such a way that even a big budget quality film cannot make profit’, said Hossain.

Presenting multiple statistics, Hossain showed that the present film market is depriving producers from fair profit shares.

The syndicate of booking agents, he said, determines which film will run in what cinema for how many weeks.

‘A producer gets only 30 per cent from the each ticket sold while an exhibitor gets 70 per cent. But a booking agent takes commission from both the producer and exhibitor for screening a film at a cinema,’ he said.

The producers also required to pay bill for hiring equipment for screening of digital films, he said.

‘The exhibitors also take charges from the viewers from each ticket sell for maintenance of additional services and government tax’, Hossain said.

As a result, Hossain said, a film producer gets only Tk 54 from a ticket of Tk 450 sold at Star Cineplex or Jamuna Blockbuster.

The system is demoralising many producers for which the industry is suffering and the exhibitors are transforming the cinemas into markets, Hossain said.

‘Out of the 1399 cinema halls in 2000, little more than 200 remains in operation today’, said Hossain.

Hossain demanded immediate intervention from the government for improvement of the system to patronise promising filmmakers and producers.

‘In the last four years, 97 new filmmakers debuted, which is a very positive sign. We should patronise them’, said Hossain.

Following the presentation of the paper Iftekhar urged the government to give loans to exhibitors so that they can equip cinema halls with digital systems.

Amir Hossain Amu said he would consider the proposal and do his best to revive the film industry.

More about: