None
Indian troupe addresses problems in urban life
A scene from Parshi Basot Kore.

On Thursday, the second day of ongoing the week-long Syed Badruddin Hossain Memorial festival, two plays Porshi Bosot Kore and Gohonjatra were staged by Kolkata-based theatre troupe Curtain Call and Padatik Natya Sangsad (TSC), respectively, at National Theatre hall and Experimental Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy.

Nine local and one Indian troupe are participating at the festival which has been organised by Padatik in memory of Syed Badruddin Hossain, who served as the troupe’s president till his death in 2009.

Porshi Basot Kore, written by Mainak Sengupta and directed by Teerthankar Chattopadhyay, depicted isolation in urban life through the story of Sunetra, a housewife, who stays at home all day while her husband Bhaskar remains busy working long hour shifts.

Left alone at the house, Sunetra begins to feel abandoned by Bahskar. She reminisces the early days of her marriage when Bhaskar used to spend a lot a time with her at home, but that was ten years ago. Sunetra knows that Bhaskar is working hard to secure a better future but in the process he has forgotten about his wife. Deserted by her husband and brokenhearted, Sunetra begins to suffer from depression.

Salvation for Sunetra comes in the form of new neighbour Akhi and a pheriwala. Akhi helps Sunetra to recover from loneliness by spending time with her and the pheriwala encourages Sunetra to celebrate and appreciate little joys in life and feel connected with everything around her.

The play featured Sanjita Mukherjee as Sunetra, Piyali Chattopadhyay as Akhi, Teerthankar Chattapadhyay as Bhaskar and Gautam Halder as pheriwala.

‘The play was a bit slow but the actors made the play enjoyable by their powerful acting,’ Maliha Bristy, an audience member told New Age.

Padatik has been organising the festival titled ‘Syed Badruddin Hossain Smriti Natya Utsab’ since 2010 on the birth anniversary of Hossain.

This year the festival is featuring plays like Padatik Natya Sangsad’s Gohon Jatra and Kaalratri, Onnesha Theatre’s Vanu Sundori, Theatre Art Unit’s Amina Sundori, Batighar’s Urnajal, Aranyak Natyadal’s The Jublee Hotel, Nagarik Natyangan’s Kritadaser Hasi, Mohakal Natya Sampraday’s Shikhandi Kotha and two plays Parshi Bosot Korey and Antorbihin by visiting Indian troupe Curtail Call.