None
Opu breaks silence over marrying Shakib
Film actress Apu Biswas talks to a private television channel on Monday.--TV grab

Popular Dhallywood actress Opu Biswas, after a year of complete seclusion, made her first public appearance on a TV channel on Monday and claimed that she converted to Islam after marrying Dhallywood superstar Shakib Khan in 2008 and bore him a son in September.

With her six-month child Abraham Khan Joy, Opu came to News 24 office at Bashundhara Residential Area and alleged that after her marriage with Shakib on April 18, 2008 at the latter’s Gulshan residence she took the name of Apu Islam Khan and remain in seclusion since March, 2016 after becoming pregnant.

Against the backdrop of Shakib’s signing films with another actress Bubli for the past few months, Opu Biswas was vocal about her marriage on social media for the past few days and demanded formal recognition from Shakib.

In the interview with the TV channel, Opu said she and Shakib appeared for the first time in a film titled ‘Koti Takar Kabin’ in 2006 and subsequently worked together in many blockbusters. The on-screen couple developed a relation and decided to tie a knot, she said.

Shakib’s brother, film producer Mamunuzzaman Mamun and another person Munir were present at their marriage ceremony on April 18, 2008 at Shakib’s residence, Opu said, adding that a marriage registrar from Faridpur completed the formalities.

She, however, did not mention why the couple kept their marriage secret but said that she was shocked as Shakib started neglecting her since the beginning of her life in seclusion in March 2016, which she claimed she did being instructed by Shakib.

She said Shakib was not even present when she gave birth to her son at a Kolkata hospital on September 27, 2016.

‘Neglected and insulted, I lost my patience,’ said a sobbing Opu, adding that she never got due respect from Shakib.

She, notwithstanding, claimed that Shakib used to send money for the child and meet them. ‘Day before [Saturday], Shakib met us for the last time,’ Opu claimed.

Shakib could not be reached over phone for his comment.