None
Shakib, Opu reconcile
File photo shows Shakib Khan and Opu Biswas in a scene form a film. The couple decides to live as a family following gossips regarding their marriage.

It appeared filmier than a film as Dhallywood popular duo Shakib Khan and Opu Biswas minimised their hatred for each other over their marriage overnight and agreed to live as a family with their son Abraham Khan Joy in real life.

The celebrity-couple in separate interviews with New Age on Tuesday said they would be together soon overcoming the mistrust and misunderstanding created between them over the question of recognition of their marriage and son.

The latest decision came following interference of their friends and families on Monday night following Opu’s interview with a local TV channel where she accused Shakib Khan of ‘forcing her to suppress the news of their marriage in 2008 and not being beside her when she gave birth to their child last year at a hospital in India.’

‘What has happened has happened’, Shakib Khan said, ‘I don’t want to say who was responsible for all what has happened. But I had the plan to present my son Ahraham in a different way to the public on his upcoming birthday. I had planned it this way so that Opu gets time to prepare for making a comeback in film opposite me in the upcoming Eid-ul-Azha and re-establishing her position.’

‘But’, he said, ‘Opu failed our plan that we had made together before. Actually, she stepped in the trap set by a vested group, which is out to tarnish our career. But, they will never be successful.’

‘Anyway, we will solve the problems soon in the interest of the future of our child who should not be a victim of our mistakes or misunderstanding,’ Shakib said.

Opu Biswas said she was happy to see the end of hide and seek game over the question of their marriage and son considering the career of both of them.

‘I was really tired and lost my patience hiding the facts,’ Opu said, adding that she gave the interview with a TV channel on Monday not being insisted by others.

For a woman, Opu said, her son, her husband and family are more important than everything. ‘My acting career is not more important than my family, husband or son,’ Opu Biswas said.

She did not, however, said whether she would quit acting for family.

‘Everything will depend on the situation. But, I will definitely not be an impediment for Shakib,’ Opu Biswas said.