None
Complete list of cultural heritage yet to be made
No complete list of indigenous performing art forms is available with any government agency or other organisations in the country though the nation feels proud of having rich tradition of cultural heritages.

The absence of an inventory with complete records of the traditional art forms is not acceptable, say folklorists and researchers.

They think it will badly affect taking comprehensive plans for safeguarding the art forms and artists and highlighting them nationally and internationally.

‘Since the country does not have any complete record of the diverse traditional art forms, it cannot take effective measures to protect or promote them,’ says Nasiruddin Yousuff, president of International Theatre Institute’s Bangladesh Centre.

For this, he finds, many artists are giving up practising traditional performing arts which they got from family tradition. ‘As a result, many art forms have vanished or on the verge of extinction,’ he says.

Though it is said that there are over a thousand types of traditional art forms in the country, some individual’s records provide description of only a few hundred of them such as jari gaan, sari gaan, bhatiyali, gambhira, pala, pat chitra, jatra, puthi path, kabi gaan, putul nach, alkap, shong pala, and lathi khala.

‘Some individuals like Selim Al Deen had taken some private initiatives to list the indigenous performing art forms but could not complete the task,’ says Yusuff, adding that the government did not so far take any initiative in this direction.

For absence of an inventory, Bangladesh National Commission of United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation officials say that they face problems applying for inscription of rich tradition of the country on the list of Intangible Cultural Heritage for Humanity.

Bangladesh National Commission of UNESCO secretary Mohammad Monjur Hossain informs that only baul songs, jamdani and mongal shobhajatra have been recognised by UNESCO as Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity and the commission applied for inscription of three more Bangladeshi traditional art forms, including jatra, nakshikantha and shital pati as ICH to the UNESCO.

‘Application for inscription of jatra and nakshi kantha has already been rejected by UNESCO for lack of documentation,’ Manjur says.

‘It is the responsibility of the government to present required data for inscription of a heritage on UNESCO’s ICH list,’ he says, adding that many traditional art forms of Bangladesh could be inscribed on the list if they were well documented.

Dhaka University fine arts faculty dean artist Nisar Hossain thinks a rich inventory of cultural heritage not only increases the image of the nation but also creates opportunities for the traditional artistes to earn money through international collaborations.

‘There are many international organisations, which fund safeguarding ICH. In addition, many universities abroad offer courses to the foreign students on cultural heritages and thereby create opportunities for the traditional artistes to earn money,’ Nisar says.

He demands that the government take immediate measures for creating an inventory of cultural heritages and take effective programmes to save the art and artistes.

And the inventory, he suggests, should be framed through a dedicated organisation, not through separate programme by different agencies such as Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, Bangla Academy and Bangladesh Folk Art and Craft Foundation.

Cultural affairs minister Asaduzzaman Noor says the government already took a comprehensive plan to make an inventory having detailed picture of the traditional art forms.

‘But preparing a complete record of the traditional art will take time for financial and resources constraints,’ Noor explains.