None
Programmes mark Chaitra Sangkranti
Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy and Bangladesh Group Theatre Federation bid farewell to Bangla Year 1423 at Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Thursday.— Snigdha Zaman

The Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, Bangladesh Group Theatre Federation, and musical troupe Surer Dhaka bade farewell to Bangla Year 1423 through separate programmes at Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy and Bangabandhu International Conference Centre premises on Thursday evening.

Artistes of cultural organisation Surer Dhara bade farewell to Chaitra (spring) through Tagore songs at a programme at the Bangabandhu International Conference Centre premises on Thursday evening.

They presented evergreen Tagore songs in group and solo presentations at the programme which began in the afternoon and continued till midnight.

The programme began with group presented of Antara Mama Bikashita Karo by a group of artistes led by Rezwana Chowdhury Bannya—eminent Tagore singer and also chief of Surer Dhara.

Besides, Bannya also delivered a speech at the programme and she said that this year Surer Dhara has passed its 25th founding anniversary as the organisation was formed in 1992. She also informed that the organisation has been celebrating Chaitra Sangkranti since 2002.

Child artistes of the organisation presented Tagore’s children song Moumachhi and Mora Sab Kaje Haat Lagai on that evening.

The programme also included staging of Tagore’s play Achalayatan by the artistes of Surer Dhara.

The prgoramme ended with performance of Bartha Pran-er Abarjanai followed by Eso Hey Baishakh Eso Eso at midnight.

Surer Dhara will also celebrate Pahela Baishakh on Friday through a day long progrmame at the same venue.

Programmes of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy and Bangladesh Group Theatre Federation featured traditional performing arts shows like lathikhela, gambhira, puppet show, puthipath and others.

Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy held its programme in the afternoon at the open field of the academy where gambhira troupe from Chapainababganj, lathikhela troupe from Sirajganj, puppet troupe from Bangladesh Puppetry Development Academy entertained audience through performances.

Children were offered rides on tradition Ferris wheel at the field, while traditional food items were also available at the venue.

Bangladesh Group Theatre Federation's programme was held at Experimental Theatre Hall of Shilpakala Academy. The programme commenced through lighting candles and distribution of tradition food items like puffed rice, sweetened puffed rice and sweets.

Ustad Shahadat Hossain Khan then moved audience with a presentation of sarod recital where the seasoned instrumentalist presented a few evening ragas.

Mymensingh-based Jasim Pagla and his troupe then presented a pala titled Gazikalu Champabati, while Chapainababganj-based gambhira troupe Chapai Gambhira presented gambhira.