None
Cultual troupes celebrate Pahela Baishakh
Clockwise from top, a dance troupe performs at Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, Theatre stages Meraj Fakirer Ma at Bangladesh Mahila Samity and visitors buy craft items at Bangla Academy on Friday. — Snigdha Zaman

Different cultural organisations arranged colourful programmes to celebrate Pahela Baishakh at separate venues in and outside Dhaka on Friday.

These programmes included fair-- displaying traditional foods and craft items-- and cultural shows featuring diverse traditional performing arts, folk songs, dance recitals, recitation and others.

The major events were organised by Chhayanaut, Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, Bangla Academy, Bangladesh Shishu Academy, Surer Dhara and others.

The main attraction of the Pahela Baishakh celebration was held at Ramna where Chhayanaut organised a show at dawn. The programme, featuring music and recitation, ended when the Mangal Shobhajatra entered the park after travelling the Dhaka University campus.

One thousand singers joined voice in a chorus led by Rezwana Chowdhury Bannya at Surer Dhara’s Bangla New Year celebrations programme held at Bangabandhu International Conference Centre.

Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy’s programme at National Theatre Hall featured music and dance.

Artistes of Spandan staged a dance with the songs Ailo Ailo Boishakh Ailo Re and A Desh Noy Jongibader while dancers of Naityalok danced in syncronisation of the song Esho Hey Baishakh Esho Esho.

Singers Kiran Chandra Roy and Chandana Majumdar sang Calenderaer Pata Ultaiya and Sonar Palonker Ghore, respectively, at the event.

Bangla Academy arranged two-day programmes and ten-day Baishakhi fair on its premise.

The fair includes twenty stalls featuring traditional sweets, books, craft items and others. The fair, which commenced on Friday, will remain open for all from 10am to 8pm till April 24.

The academy arranged a discussion on Pahela Baishakh on Friday. Director general of Bangla Academy Shamsuzzaman Khan, professor Ajay Roy and cultural personality Kamal Lohani spoke on the occasion.

Depicting life and work of Lalon, Indian troupe Spectators staged its production titled ‘Man of the Hearts’ at Abdul Karim Sahitto Bisharad Hall of the academy on Saturday.

Bangladesh Shishu Academy celebrated Baishakh through a day-long event.

Secretary of the ministry of Women and Children’s Affairs Nasima Begum inaugurated the event at the auditorium of the academy.

Theatre staged three plays at Dr Nilima Ibrahim Auditorium of Bangladesh Mahila Samity on Friday.

The troupe staged Syed Shamsul Haq’s liberation war based play Payer Awaz pawa Jay at 11am, its latest production Maya Nodi at 5:30pm and Meraj Fakirer Ma at 7:30 pm.

Payer Awaz Pawa Jay is written by late Syed Shamsul Haq and directed by late Abdullah Al Mamun, Maya Nodi, Theatre’s latest production, is written and directed by Maruf Kabir, while Meraj Fakirer Ma is written and directed by late Abdullah Al Mamun.

All three shows were enjoyed by a houseful audience.

James along with his band Nagarbaul entertained the audience at a concert held at the Kalabagan playground.

Dhaka Metropolitan Police arranged a concert titled ‘Aloker Jharnadhara’ at Ramna.

BRAC Services Limited arranged a concert at BRAC CDM in Rajendrapur. Popular band Maqsood O’ Dhaka performed at the programme.

Square Group organised a colourful cultural show in Pabna to celebrate Pahela Baishakh.

Cultural organisation Shibalaya Shotodol arranged a kite festival on the bank of Jamuna river at Aricha ghat in Manikganj on Friday. Participants at the event flew different types of kites like koira ghuddi, potinga guhddi, chila ghuddi, dol ghuddi, baj guddi, sapa ghuddi, prajapati ghuddi, and others.