None
Play on Fakir Lalon staged
Fakir Lalon Shah as a great humanist was presented in an experimental theatre staged by a visiting Indian troupe Spectators on Saturday at Abdul Karim Sahitya Bisharad Auditorium of Bangla Academy.

The bilingual monodrama, Man of the Heart, written by Sudipto Chatterjee and directed by Sumon Mukhopaddhay, analyses Fakir Lalon Shah, his life and philosophy in objective way.

The play also criticised the researchers for misinterpreting the great bard and his philosophy from communal aspect despite the fact that Lalon took a bold stance against communalism in his evergreen songs.

Man of the Heart was staged as part of the ongoing five-day International Folklore Workshop.

Orgnaised by the academy, the workshop ended on Monday.

The monodrama, acted by Sudipto Chatterjee, combines narration, acting, singing, shadow theatre, videography and a documentary to present the 19th century bard to the contemporary urban viewers.

Sudipto Chatterjee’s energetic presentation of the narrations and dialogues in the English play kept the audience captivated in the two-hour production and also raised questions on the audiences’ mind regarding biographies presented in books, films and others.

Instead of focusing on Lalon’s religious background, what he never disclosed in his life, the play suggests the audience to follow Lalon’s bold stance against sectarianism in a time when the society in India is sharply divided in question of religion.

The play, at the same time, also presented Lalon’s political consciousness about the then society through his songs.

Sudipto also earned acclaims rendering Lalon’s evergreen songs dealing with various issues such as humanism and devotion in Bangla.

Translations of the songs were projected in English on the cyclorama.

‘The play, premiered in 2005, had its first show in Bangladesh where he was born and lived,’ said Sudipto Chatterjee, adding that Man of the Heart had so far 200 shows in different countries including UK, US, Italy and Germany.

More about: