None
Group show celebrates Pahela Baishakh
Visitors look at displayed artworks at Galleri Kaya. — New Age photo

Nineteen artists united for a group show featuring masks and portraits on display at Galleri Kaya celebrating Pahela Baishakh.

Masks made in diverse mediums like wood, paper, ceramic, steel and others are on display at the show.

For visitors, it is a good opportunity to see and collect masks of diverse designs and mediums.

Tiled ‘Mukh O Mukhosh’, the show also features portrait paintings, drawings and prints by artists Shishir Bhattacharjee, Hamiduzzaman Khan, Debashish Pal, Ranjit Das, Mohammad Iqbal, Shahnoor Mamun, Goutam Chakraborty, Abdur Rahim and others.

The artists have used folk motifs to decorate masks of different sizes.

Artist Abdur Rahim’s series of wood masks under the title ‘Mask’ depicts figures like owl, human face and leaves of trees.

Artist Amit Kuch has used animal figures to make his wood masks.

Debdas Malakar has shown dexterity in making masks in stainless steel, while Namirah Farzana’s wood masks recreated characters from folk tales. Noder Chand, Mohua and few other characters have been depicted by the artist.

Pintu Chandra Deb and Rajaul Islam Lovelu’s wood masks also deserve acclaim.

Besides masks, portrait paintings and drawings on display are also eye-catching.

Shishir Bhattacharjee’s drawings of female faces in thick ink lines are rare treats for viewers. Bhattacharjee, in his signature style, has combined the faces with natural elements like leaves of trees in the drawings.

Renowned sculptor Hamiduzzaman Khan has displayed a few watercolour portraits where the human faces are presented in thick black shades.

Shahnoor Mamun’s watercolour portraits of a village girl and Rabindranath Tagore are two wonderful pieces showing the artist’s control over watercolour medium.

Artist Aloptogin Tushar’s watercolour portrait of poet Shamsur Rahman is a nuanced and detailed piece.

Mohammad Iqbal’s untitled mezzotint prints showing figures like bauls and fakirs have added a different dimension to the show.

The exhibition ends tomorrow.