None
Pressure to look perfect hits girls' confidence
Girls say concerns about their looks are holding them back. — BBC photo

Girls in the UK are markedly less confident about their looks than they were five years ago, research by Girlguiding suggests.

Just 61 per cent of 1,627 seven- to 21-year-old girls polled for the 2016 Girls' Attitudes Survey felt happy about their bodies, down from 73 per cent in 2011.

Girls as young as seven face ‘intense and unobtainable appearance pressures to be perfect’, say the authors.

Girlguiding director Becky Hewitt called the impact ‘shocking’.

‘Girls have told us to stop judging them on how they look,’ she said.

‘Every day in guiding, girls inspire us with their bravery, sense of adventure and their kindness.

‘We are calling on everyone to show girls that they are valued for who they are - not what they look like,’ said Hewitt.

Among the 559 seven- to 10-year-olds who took part in the survey, 36 per cent said they were made to feel the most important thing about them was their looks; 38 per cent felt they were not pretty enough;

35 per cent agreed women were judged more on their appearance than their abilities; and 23 per cent felt they needed to be perfect.

And these feelings were far more prevalent among the more than 1,000 11- to 21-year-olds who took part. Eighty per cent felt their looks were the most important thing about them; 66 per cent felt they were not pretty enough, 93 per cent agreed women were judged more on appearance than ability; 47 per cent believed their looks held them back most of the time; and 61 per cent felt the need to be perfect.

Girls told the researchers lack of body confidence not only stopped them wearing certain clothes and having their pictures taken - but also prevented them exercising, speaking up in class and socialising.

‘I think more girls are judged on their appearance than boys,’ 10-year-old Lyra told the researchers.

‘I don't think it's fair that men get treated differently to women. ‘You have to treat everyone the same.’

Girls told the researchers lack of body confidence not only stopped them wearing certain clothes and having their pictures taken - but also prevented them exercising, speaking up in class and socialising.

‘I think more girls are judged on their appearance than boys,’ 10-year-old Lyra told the researchers.

‘I don't think it's fair that men get treated differently to women.

Another of the younger participants called for an end to girls being judged on their bodies and being made to ‘feel bad about themselves’.

While Liddy Buswell, a Brownie leader aged 18, said she had experienced some of the issues first hand.

‘I've witnessed girls unwilling to speak to groups because of how they look, I've heard girls saying they've been called names at school and aren't confident trying new activities as a result,’ she said.

‘No girl should have to worry about the way she looks.

‘This year's survey is a damning indication that something needs to be done to tackle this growing issue.’

Girlguiding has launched a social media challenge to the public to compliment the young women and girls they know on their achievements and personal qualities rather than their looks, using the hashtags #youareamazing and #girlsattitudes on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.

Carole Easton, chief executive of the Young Women's Trust, which recently published research suggesting high levels of anxiety and despair among young women, agreed more needed to be done to tackle gender stereotypes, starting from childhood.

‘Otherwise we will continue to see lower levels of wellbeing, lower confidence and greater worries about the future amongst young women,’ she said.

The survey was carried out for Girlguiding by Childwise between March and May this year.

The girls and women who took part were a representative sample from across the UK, not restricted to those involved in guiding.