None
Self-censorship affects quality of war teleplay
Self-censorship by directors and TV channels has been affecting the quality of teleplays based on the 1971 war of independence, typically aired on the December 16 Victory Day and the March 26 Independence Day.

The situation, experts say, has been further aggravated by dull, repetitive content as well as low budget – the latter being a primary deterrent against the production of more creative, original and aesthetically pleasing teleplays on the war.

Currently, there are 16 generalised television channels in the country that broadcast single-episode dramas, on the two occasions.

But the directors, instead of trying to provide new insights into the all-too-familiar subject, remain hung up on an overused linear narrative and clichéd images of the war fearing backlash.

‘It’s been 45 years since the independence. It’s time we found out newer angles to approach the war,’ said veteran actor-director Mamunur Rashid.

As regards self-censorship, he said he believes there should be no such thing as long as a teleplay does not show anything subversive to the interests of the nation.

Meanwhile, defending their position on the use of repetitive storyline and methods of presentation, the directors say there are certain unwritten regulations that they have to obey.

‘We can’t always make what we want to. We have to consider the socio-political environment of the country and the channels’ political allegiance,’ said director Dipankar Dipan, who was behind several war teleplays including Mrittyu 71.

‘Also, a drama that might be accepted by one channel might not be accepted by another. Things get worse if a channel refuses to buy a drama that was previously agreed upon,’ he added.

Dipu Hazra, another director, spoke in the same vein.

‘We live in a complicated socio-cultural situation in which both pro- liberation and anti-liberation forces are active, and then there are those lurking in between. It’s sometimes difficult to determine what story might hurt whom,’ said Hazra.

Noted teleplay director SA Haq Alik also acknowledged the reality of self-censorship.

‘Of course there is self-censorship. The general tendency is to make teleplays that will only depict the gallantry of the freedom fighters, and it’s a basic demand of the state and society.

‘So there is a conflict between what I want to show and what I am being compelled to show,’ said Alik, who also talked about the budget problem.

‘Generally, the highest budget allocated for a war drama is about Tk 2.5 lakh, which is, quite frankly, not nearly enough for a period drama involving costly settings.

‘With this amount you can show, for example, rather symbolic images of the war and the post-war reality. But actual scenes of the battleground, or a refugee camp, do not come cheap,’ he said.

Asked about these problems, Nawazish Ali Khan, advisor of programme at ATN Bangla, said channels are business entities at the end of the day.

‘The reality is, our TV channels have to function in a competitive environment. So it is not always possible for them to welcome experimental productions,’ he said.

Salauddin Zaki, head of programme at SATV, denied the allegation of unwritten regulations.

‘Generally, the channels do not impose any rule or restriction on the directors. The latter, however, have to remain careful so as not to depict anything that might go against the general sentiment of the people.

‘Other than that, they are free to show whatever they want,’ said Zaki, adding that SATV is trying to increase the budget for teleplays based on the war of independence.