None
Cultural organisations celebrate Victory Day
A dance troupe performs at the Central Shaheed Minar on Friday (top), Syed Hasan Imam recites a poem at Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, Runa Laila sings a song at the south plaza of Jatiya Sangsad as part of Victory Day celebrations programme, James renders a song at Suhrawardy Udyan on Friday, (down, from left)- Snigdha Zaman

Cultural organisations celebrated the country’s 46th Victory Day on Friday recalling the heroic deeds and sacrifices of the martyrs and freedom fighters.

While Dhaka remained at the centre of Victory Day celebrations programmes, with some events starting several days prior to December 16, such programmes were also organised by district level troupes and organisations .

International Mother Language Institute led this year’s celebrations by hosting a 16-day festival, beginning from December 1 at the institute at Segun Bagicha in the capital.

The programme featured discussions, photography exhibition and various other theme-based performances.

On the concluding day on Friday, the institute organised a mega concert and a mobile photography exhibition at the Suhrawardy Udyan.

At the concert, popular bands of the country such as Nagar Baul, Chirkutt, Shunnya and Vikings performed.

Chirkutt first took the stage and presented popular numbers such as Dhanno Dhanne Pushpe Bhora, Jadur Sohor and Antarale. Nagar Baul presented its popular songs such as Laice Fita Laice, Dushtu Chheler Dal and Tumi Janle Na.

Like the previous years, Bangladesh Liberation War Museum organised a weeklong programme that ended on Friday with diverse programmes on its premises.

A cultural show was organised on the concluding day, in which members of different children’s troupes such as Kolporekha and Khelaghar performed.

In the afternoon, Mohadev Shong Jatra from Tangail entertained audience presenting a shong performance.

Sammilita Sangskritik Jote organised Victory Day celebrations programme at four venues in the capital.

The main event was held at the Central Shaheed Minar on Friday that began with a possession by cultural activists.

Similar programmes were organised by Sammilita Sangskritik Jote at Rabindra Sarobar in Dhanmondi, Rayer Bazar Badhyabhumi and Dania.

Bangladesh Shilapakala Academy organised an elaborate programme featuring discussion, acrobatic, theatre and cultural show at the National Theatre Hall of the academy.

The academy’s acrobatic team presented a spectacular show in the afternoon.

It was followed by Dhaka Metropolitan Police’s theatre production titled ‘Rajarbag 71’, which depicts bravery and sacrifice of police members who put up the first resistance on March 25, 1971 when the Pakistani army began the notorious operation searchlight.

Syed Hasan Imam, Naila Tarannum Kakoli, Jayanto Chattapadhyay, Shimul Mustafa and others recited patriotic poems. The programme also featured presentation of spectacular dance recitals and popular patriotic songs.

Bangla Academy celebrated the day at its Nazrul Mancha on Friday where professor M Mashiur Rahman presented the key-note speech titled ‘Samajik Nitimala, Daridra O Bangladesh-er Muktijuddha’. The session was presided over by professor emeritus Rafiqul Islam.

Following the seminar, a short cultural show featuring recitation and music was held. Sayera Habib read a part from Rashid Haider’s book Smrity 71. Patriotic songs were presented by Abdul Halim Khan, Shimu Rani Dey, Christopher Gomez and Tanzina Karim.

Bangladesh Shishu Academy celebrated the Victory day organising a children’s art competition, screening of documentaries on liberation war and launching of a book on the war, and a cultural show.

State minister for Woman and Children affairs ministry Meher Afroz Chumki handed over awards among winners of the art competition.

Bangladesh Film Directors’ Association celebrated the Victory Day at Bangladesh Film Development Corporation organising blood donation camp and children’s art competition.

A colourful laser show featuring the historical events of the country was presented at the south plaza of Jatiya Sangsad.

Following the laser show, celebrated singers like Runa Laila and Sabina Yasmin presented patriotic songs and their popular numbers.

Private television station Channel-i also organised a daylong event marking the Victory Day at its Tejgaon office.

Swadhin Bangla Betar Kendra artistes Abdul Jabbar, Tapan Mahmud, Indramohan Rajbangshi performed at the programme.

In Chittagong, different cultural and educational organisations and government institutions celebrated the day through different programmes.

Similar programmes were organised in all major cities in the country.