None
FFA celebrates Mangal Shobhajatra recognition
Teachers and students of the faculty of fine arts of Dhaka on Saturday gather at the faculty ground to celebrate UNESCO’s recognition of Mangal Shobhajatra. — Ali Hossain Mintu

The Faculty of Fine Arts of Dhaka University celebrated UNESCO’s recognition of Mangal Shobhajatra as an intangible cultural heritage through a programme at Bokultola on Saturday.

UNESCO announced its decision to include the ritualistic procession in its list of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity on November 30, at the 11th session of the intergovernmental committee on intangible cultural heritage held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

At the celebratory programme, FFA recognised the efforts of Bangla Academy, the cultural affairs ministry, and 27 former students of the faculty credited with initiating Mangal Shobhajatra in Dhaka in 1989.

Dhaka University vice-chancellor AAMS Arefin Siddiqui handed over crests and mementos to cultural affairs secretary Akhtari Mamtaz, Bangla Academy director-general Shamsuzzaman Khan and the former students.

Among others, artists Rafiqun Nabi and Hashem Khan were present on the occasion. Posters of all the processions held by FFA since 1989 were also put on display at the venue.

‘The faculty of fine arts has been organising Mangal Shobhajatra since the Bangla Year 1396. UNESCO’s recognition of this secular procession as an intangible cultural heritage is a great achievement for all of us,’ said Nisar Hossain, dean of FFA.

‘Mangal Shobhajatra is an instance of cultural and religious convergence in our society. The procession is secular and inclusive in nature as anyone can participate in it,’ said Hashem Khan.

Sources say, the country’s first-ever Mangal Shobhajatra procession took place in 1986 in Jessore, in which a group of young people wearing masks of animal motifs walked the streets to welcome the Bengali New Year 1393.

Three years later, in 1989, Dhaka University’s fine arts students brought out a similar procession in Dhaka, and over the years the ritual emerged as the staple of Pahela Baishakh celebrations in Bangladesh.

In the capital, thousands of people now participate in the procession that walks from Charukala to Ramna Park, with the revellers clad in colourful festive clothing and motif-based masks, some carrying replicas of animals while others playing traditional instruments.