None
3-day Kathak festival held
A three-day festival featuring the Kathak dance will end today at the Chhayanaut auditorium in Dhanmondi, Dhaka.

Kathak Nritya Sampradaya has organised the event titled ‘5th Kathak Utsab,’ featuring both solo and group performances. It was inaugurated on Saturday by the legendary Indian Kathak dancer-choreographer Pandit Birju Maharaj.

The performers, representing KNS and other dance organisations, are demonstrating both the technical and artistic aspects of Kathak, one of the eight major forms of Indian classical dance.

Today, the festival will end with a duet performance by Pandit Birju Maharaj and Saswati Sen, another leading exponent of Kathak from India.

On Sunday, a group of mentally challenged children performed along with the KNS artistes.

On Saturday, a group of dancers led by noted local danseur Saju Ahmed presented Bandona, which marks the start of a Kathak performance seeking divine blessings.

The well-coordinated moves and spins of the dancers and intricate patterns of the dance captivated the audience.

Members of the Rewaz Performing Arts troupe presented Tarana, a Kathak piece, in a group recital. Noted dancer Munmun Ahmed, also chief of the organisation, along with eight others pulled off a spectacular performance.

Also in a group performance, the artistes of Nrityasram presented a routine of the Jaipur Gharana.

Earlier in the evening, an honorary award titled Jinat Jahan Smrity Padak-2016 was conferred on Saswati Sen by the festival organisers.

Every year, KNS honours a dancer with the award named after noted Kathak trainer Jinat Jahan, who died on January 31, 2002.

Birju Maharaj handed over the crest to Sen in the presence of KNS chief Saju Ahmed, Bangladesh Nritya Shilpy Sangstha president Minu Haq and seasoned dancer Laila Hasan.

While talking to New Age, Saju explained the reason behind the festival, saying their aim is to promote the Kathak dancers of the country.

‘Kathak is a beautiful dance form and through this festival we try to encourage young people to learn and practice it and promote those already in the business,’ he said.