None
Birju Maharaj, Saswati Sen perform on last day
Indian Kathak dancer Pandit Birju Maharaj performs on Monday at Chhayanaut Auditorium. — Snigdha Zaman

Legendary Indian Kathak dancer Pandit Birju Maharaj and his famed disciple Saswati Sen performed on Monday at the Chhayanaut Auditorium in Dhanmondi, Dhaka.

It was the last day of the three-day Kathak Dance Festival – now in its fifth year – organised by Kathak Nritya Sampradaya.

A versatile genius, Birju Maharaj did not present any dance recital at the programme, rather he captivated the audience through vocal renditions of different bols, ghazals, thumris and Bangla songs.

But Saswati Sen, who has been taking lessons from Maharaj for the last 48 years, did perform some eye-catching moves beginning with Krishnapada, a Kathak recital performed as a tribute to Lord Krishna.

She then presented a few short recitals including Intezar, which is an expression of a girl’s longing for her beloved, and Ahalya Uddhar, a dramatic retelling of the story of Ahalya, a character from the Mahabharata.

As she performed, Birju Maharaj was sitting with the instrumentalists on stage and occasionally provided vocal support with bols.

The audience, while appreciating Sen’s performance, seemed more eager to see Maharaj pull off some of those moves that he used to enthral generations of dance enthusiasts. Instead, Maharaj, also a singer and poet, chose to use his voice to entertain them. He began by presenting some bols – mnemonic syllables that help dancers while dancing.

From bols he moved to present a popular thumri, Mein Na Manu. The 78-year-old Padma Vibhushan winner also showed a few mudras (dance gestures) while sitting on his seat, giving the audience a glimpse into his genius.

Maharaj also presented portions of two Bangla songs – Manna Dey’s Jadi Kagaje Likho Naam and Rabindranath Tagore’s Ami Chancholo Hey – and recited two self-composed Hindi poems. Earlier, the programme began with a discussion in which cultural personality Kamal Lohani, Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy director general Liaquat Ali Lucky, and seasoned dancer Golam Mostafa Khan were present.

The festival, which began on Saturday, featured demonstrations of both the technical and artistic aspects of Kathak, one of the eight major forms of Indian classical dance.