None
Bangladesh Betar to extend FM coverage
Bangladesh Betar is moving ahead with plans to widen its frequency modulation (FM) broadcasting coverage by setting up region-based FM radio bands.

FM broadcasting – radio broadcasting using the technology of frequency modulation (FM) – has grown to be a very popular medium that anyone can access by a simple tap on their mobile phone sets.

So far, a total of 32 separate FM radio bands have been set up by Bangladesh Betar. They run their shows for several hours each day.

Besides the state-run bands, there are 17 private FM stations currently in operation, while the government has recently licensed 28 private organisations for FM broadcasting, which are yet to launch their operations.

Of the state-run FM bands, Dhaka station alone has eight, while Rajshahi station has four bands. Chittagong, Sylhet, Khulna and Rangpur have three bands each.

The Comilla station has two bands while Thakurgaon, Barisal, Cox’s Bazar, Rangamati, Bandarbon and Jessore have one each.

While the FM broadcast bands usually air programmes made for the regional radio stations, they sometimes broadcast content made specifically for them. These range from shows related to education, information and entertainment to weather and traffic updates.

‘FM broadcasting has reignited people’s interest in radio. It has replaced the analogue technology to make radio more accessible to the young and elderly alike,’ said AKM Nesar Uddin Bhuiyan, director general of Bangladesh Betar.

‘We hope to bring the whole country under our FM network.’

Two FM stations are currently in the process of being set up at Mymensingh and Gopalganj, he added, while plans are afoot to set up several in other districts.

‘Each of the stations has around a 50-kilometre radius, which means residents within that area can have a clear, uninterrupted listening experience,’ said Zia Hasan, a senior engineer of Bangladesh Betar.

Hasan thinks it is feasible to bring the whole country under the FM broadcasting coverage.

However, though the FM bands, both state-run and private, are enjoying huge popularity, there are allegations that they do not regularly pay royalties to the artistes.

Bangladesh Lyricists, Composers and Performers Society general secretary Sujit Mostafa welcomed the move of Bangladesh Betar and demanded it to pay royalties on regular basis.

Bangladesh Betar director (liaison) Md Abdul Hoque said, ‘We are planning a separate royalty structure to be applied in all our FM stations.’

More about: