None
Zainul fest features crafts items
A stall displaying crafts items at Faculty of Fine Arts. — Snigdha Zaman

Around 15 craftsmen from around the country as well as students and teachers of the Faculty of Fine Arts of Dhaka University are displaying their works at a three-day Zainul Utsab that began on Thursday.

Among the works by craftsmen are crafts made in wood, shola, metal, rickshaw painting, Nakshi Kantha (a type of embroidered quilt), and shitol pati (cooling mat) and so on.

Meanwhile, works by the FFA artists – students and teachers from the eight departments under the faculty – include paintings, paints and sculptures.

‘Shilpacharya Zainul Abedin loved and patronised local folk arts and crafts. He even took initiatives to gather folk artists and craftsmen at the annual art fairs at the then Institute of Fine Arts,’ said Nisar Hossain, dean of the faculty.

The trend caught on after Zainul’s death, and today works by the craftsmen from different parts of the country are a regular sight at the faculty’s annual art fairs and the Zainul Utsab, a festival held in memory of the legendary artist.

This year’s edition, marking the 102nd birth anniversary of Zainul Abedin, was inaugurated by the cultural affairs minister Asaduzzaman Noor in the morning.

Eminent Bangladeshi artist Hashem Khan and Indian artist Jogen Chowdhury received this year’s Zainul Award at the inauguration ceremony.

Dhaka University vice-chancellor AAMS Arefin Siddique presided over the ceremony.

‘It’s a great honour to get an award named after Zainul Abedin. He was an artist of the masses and one of the greatest to have emerged in the recent history of art,’ said Jogen Chowdhury.

Jogen, who was born in Faridpur and spent his early years there before moving to Kolkata after Partition, also expressed his interest to present his paintings done in 1971 to Bangladesh.

Hashem Khan also expressed his joy at being selected for the award.

Two sculptures of Zainul Abedin were unveiled on the opening day, while Jahanara Abedin, Zainul’s widow, unveiled a bust of his late husband made by the Indian sculptor Tarak Gorai.

Jogen also unveiled another bust of Zainul made by Roni Pal, a student of the sculpture department of the faculty of fine arts. The sculpture was selected for exhibition after a competition on bust making for the faculty students.

A cultural show was also held in the afternoon, at Bakultola, as part of the festival.