None
Artisans suffer for lack of marketing initiatives
Gopendranath Chakrabarty

Lack of initiatives to market home-grown craft items is taking a toll on the artisans struggling to sell their products, said the Jhenaidah-based artisan Gopendranath Chakrabarty.

The 70-year old, who attended the ongoing Zainul Mela at the Faculty of Fine Arts at Dhaka University, made this observation while talking to New Age.

‘Today’s youth, even those from the Malakar community [a community known for making shola products], are moving away from craft thanks to lack of prospects in the business,’ he said.

Gopendranath has been working as a shola artisan since mid-1970s.

‘The fact is, people like these products but we artisans can’t bring these over to them. There is no marketing policy of the government that could improve their marketability and create a favourable situation for us.

‘You’ll see that the city people and foreigners really want to purchase such products. But the only time we can reach them is through craft fairs and festivals, provided we are invited there,’ he said.

Gopendranath’s stall at the three-day Zainul Mela, which ends on Saturday, is filled with decorative items such as birds, boats, crocodiles, statuettes of Taj Mahal and other items made of shola plants.

‘Malakars usually make items such as topors and statuettes of gods and goddesses for temples, but I like decorative items,’ said Gopendranath, who had once displayed his works at a 45-day fair held in Japan.

‘I was not born into the Malakar community but many Malakar families lived in my village and I had frequent interactions with them. I was inspired by them and the look of shola products,’ he said, explaining his connection to the artistry.

Many of the Malakar families are now changing their age-old profession in favour of more profitable works, thanks to lack of promotion and other obstacles in the business.

‘The government should come forward to help the artisans and craftsmen across the country by creating new markets for them and, where necessary, subsidising their work.

‘Otherwise, this craft might be lost from our soil forever,’ he said.