None
2016 in review: major cultural events
Mangal Shobhajatra was recognised by UNESCO as an Intangible Cultural Heritage.

2016 saw a great number of cultural events organised almost every day but no significant achievement for any local performer on the global stage. Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, Bangla Academy, Bangladesh National Museum, Shammilita Sangskritik Jote, Chhayanaut, Bengal Foundation and other major organisations were active round the year, hosting over 500 events. Meanwhile, 59 commercial films were released, of which only four or five were box office hits, while none of the over 400 released audio albums could do good business. In theatre, 24 new plays were brought out by the Dhaka-based troupes while the number was less than 10 outside the capital. Below is an overview of 20 of the most important events and developments of 2016 compiled in order of the time of their occurrence.

Bangladesh Cultural Festival

Mangal Shobhajatra was recognised by UNESCO as an Intangible Cultural Heritage.

Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy organised an 18-day Bangladesh Cultural Festival in January in which artistes from all the 64 districts demonstrated the heritage and traditional performing arts, including music and dance, native to their regions.

Dhaka Int’l Film Festival

The 14th edition of Dhaka International Film Festival was organised by Rainbow Film Society in January, featuring 178 films from 58 countries. Iranian-Afghan romantic film A Few Cubic Metres of Love won the Best Film award.

Shilpakala Academy organised the first Bangladesh Cultural Fest.

Int’l Children’s Film Festival

The ninth edition of International Children’s Film Festival was organised by Children’s Film Society Bangladesh in January. The weeklong event showed 150 films from 30 countries, simultaneously at 15 venues in different districts.

Muslin Exhibition

A month-long Muslin Exhibition was held at Bangladesh National Museum in February with an aim to raise awareness of the fabric’s rich heritage and impact on the world textile industry. The show, organised by Drik in association with the museum, displayed samples of muslin woven in the 16th-17th centuries in Dhaka, some woven by the contemporary weavers, as well as several historic documents and audio-visual presentations.

Dhaka Art Summit

Dhaka Art Summit featured artworks by South Asian artists.

The third edition of Dhaka Art Summit was held in February at the National Art Gallery of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, featuring over 600 artists, critics, curators and collectors from around the world. Samdani Art Foundation, in association with the cultural affairs ministry and Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, organised the four-day event and displayed 17 solo projects and six curated group shows featuring local and foreign artists.

Bhanga-Gara Natya Utsab

Bangladesh Group Theatre Federation organised the month-long Bhanga-Gara Natya Utsab at the Mahila Samity Mancha in March, celebrating the reopening of the historic theatre venue after a five-year hiatus. The festival featured 30 contemporary theatre productions.



Exhibition of artworks by Tagore

Bangladesh National Museum organised a show featuring 120 replicas of Rabindranath Tagore’s artworks at the Nalinikanta Bhattasali Gallery in May, marking his 155th birth anniversary.

Young Artist Art Exhibition

Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy organised the 20th edition of Young Artist Art Exhibition at the National Art Galley of the academy in May, featuring 227 artworks by 188 artists. Four of them got awards. Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy has been organising the biennale since 1975.

Exhibition offering glimpse in Nazrul’s life

Bangladesh National Museum organised a month-long exhibition displaying objects associated with the National Poet Kazi Nazrul Islam in June. The show, held at Gallery 23, featured around 50 objects and articles used by the poet, manuscripts of his poems and songs, photographs, and books written on and by him.

TV professionals protested at airing of Bangla-dubbed drama series.

Dhallywood protest against Kolkata film release

The film industry in July protested against attempts to release the Kolkata-based film Kelor Kirti in local cinemas. The protesters said commercial release of Indian films in Bangladesh would further tip the scales against an already-struggling industry.

National Theatre Festival

Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy and Bangladesh Group Theatre Federation jointly organised the National Theatre Festival 2016 in September, featuring 58 plays by the same number of troupes from across the country. The 18-day event was held simultaneously at three venues of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy and Bangladesh Mahila Samity.

Dhaka Int’l Folk Fest

The second edition of Dhaka International Folk Festival was held at the Army Stadium in November. The three-day event featured 125 performers from Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, the UK, and Spain, who presented mainly fusion music and sufi songs.

Dhaka Lit Fest

Dhaka Lit Fest, the biggest English-language literature festival in the country, was held at the Bangla Academy in November. The three-day event, organised by Jatrik with Bangla Academy as a co-host, was inaugurated by the Nobel Prize winning writer VS Naipaul. It was the fifth edition of the festival and drew 66 writers from 18 countries.

Girija Devi, centre, performed at Bengal Classical Music Fest.

Bengal Classical Music Fest

The fifth edition of Bengal Classical Music Festival, one of the biggest classical music events in South Asia, was organised by Bengal Foundation at Army Stadium in November. Over 200 local and Indian classical singers, instrumentalists and dancers performed in the event.

Mangal Shobhajatra gets UNESCO recognition

Mangal Shobhajatra, a ceremonial procession organised on the first morning of Bangla New Year, was recognised by UNESCO as an element of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity in November. Earlier, UNESCO had enlisted Baul music and Dhakai Jamdani weaving as Intangible Cultural Heritage in 2008 and 2013.

Protests against airing of foreign series

The Federation of Television Professionals Organisation, an association of 13 professional groups, organised a series of demonstrations since late November protesting against the broadcast of Bangla-dubbed foreign drama series on local channels.

2nd Dhaka Int’l Monodrama Fest

The eight-day Dhaka International Monodrama Festival was organised by Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy in December, featuring seven local and four foreign troupes. It was organised by the International Theatre Institute’s Bangladesh Centre and Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy.

Asian Art Biennale

Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy organised the 17th Asian Art Biennale at the National Art Gallery in December, featuring a total of 516 artworks from 55 countries – 422 of them in the competition section. Eight of the nine awards of the festival were bagged by local artists. The biennale has been organised since 1981.

VS Naipaul, centre, graced the Dhaka Lit Fest 2016.

14th int’l short, indie film fest

The 14th edition of the International Short and Independent Film Festival was organised by Bangladesh Short Film Forum in December. The eight-day event showed over 500 films from 109 countries – divided into seven categories – at four venues in the capital.

Ballad-based theatre festival

Theatre troupe Natya Tirtha organised a uniquely themed festival titled ‘Sundari Natya Mela,’ featuring plays based on or inspired by folk ballads, at the National Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy in December. Six troupes from Dhaka and outside the capital performed at the six-day festival.