None
Celebs who died in 2016
The year 2016 saw great losses in the realm of arts and culture as 10 prominent figures died this year, leaving a vacuum in the cultural life of the nation. Below are short profiles of these individuals compiled in order of the time of their death.

Music composer-director Khandaker Nurul Alam died on January 22 at the age of 80. Nurul Alam is the composer of many super-hit songs including Chokh Je Moner Kotha Boley and Ami Chand Ke Bolechhi Aaj Raate. He got the National Film Award several times and the Ekushey Padak in 2008.

Robin Ghosh, famous for composing such playbacks as Ami Rup Nagarer Rajkanya and Phuler Kaney Bhramar Eshey, died on February 13 at the age of 76. Robin made his debut as a music composer with director Ehtesham’s Rajdhanir Bukey in 1961, and subsequently earned fame by composing playbacks for both Bangla and Urdu films.

Artist-filmmaker Khalid Mahmud Mithu died on March 7 after a tree fell on him at Dhanmondi in Dhaka. His first feature film, Gohiney Shabda, received the National Film Award in four categories. His second, Jonakir Alo, received the Best Film Award at the Delhi International Film Festival.

Rafiq Azad, one of the major voices in contemporary Bangla poetry, died on March 11 at the age of 75. Rafiq, who was a freedom fighter, was credited with publishing 45 collections of poetry including Prakriti O Premer Kabita. He received the Bangla Academy Award in 1984 and the Ekushey Padak in 2013.

Film and television actress Parvin Sultana Diti died on March 20 at the age of 50. Diti emerged as an actress in 1986 with director Azmal Huda Mithu’s Ami-e Ustad. She acted in over 200 films and won the National Film Award for her performance in director Soovas Dutt’s Swami Stri.

Filmmaker Shahidul Islam Khokon died on April 4 at the age of 59. Shahidul emerged as a director with Rakter Bandhi in the 1980s, and went on to direct many commercially successful films including Ghatok, and Palabi Kothay. He won the National Film Award for Madam Phuli.

Singer Rob Fakir, one of the torchbearers of authentic akhrai-style music of Lalon songs, died on August 7 at the age of 61. He got nationwide popularity after working with a number of contemporary fusion musicians.

Shahid Qadri, often considered a trendsetter in contemporary Bangla poetry, died on August 28 in New York at the age of 74. In a career spanning over 50 years, Qadri published only four collections of poetry and an anthology. He received the Bangla Academy Award in 1973 and the Ekushey Padak in 2011.

Poet-playwright Syed Shamsul Haq died on September 27 at the age of 80. In a career spanning over 60 years, Haq wrote several books of poetry, 40 novels, screenplays for mainstream films, hundreds of playbacks and several critically acclaimed plays. He won the Ekushey Padak in 1984 and Independence Day Award in 2000.

Abdul Gafur Hali, a legendary musician of Chittagonian songs, died on December 21 at the age of 88. Gafur wrote over 1,500 songs including Dui Kul-er Sultan Bhandari, Dekhe Jare Maizbhandare, Sona Bondhu Tui Amare Korli Re Dewana, and Oi Lal Kurta Wala.

More about: