None
FDC to build multi-storey building
A shooting floor at BFDC, which will be demolished to build a multi-storey building. — Sony Ramany

Bangladesh Film Development Corporation is planning to construct a 14-storey multi-purpose commercial building on the corporation ground.

The building will include shooting floors, cineplex, accommodation facilities, food courts, and swimming pool to facilitate indoor shooting, said FDC officials.

It will be constructed on the field adjacent to shooting floors 3 and 4, which will also be demolished to make room for the building.

The BFDC steering committee approved the proposal for the building at a general meeting in 2015.

‘We have already recruited consultants to study the feasibility of the building and we hope to submit a DPP (Detailed Project Plan) to the planning commission via information ministry soon,’ said Tapan Kumar Ghosh, managing director of the corporation.

Ghosh thinks that a modern multi-purpose building with shooting floors and other facilities will be of great help to the filmmakers. It will also be a source of income for the corporation, he added.

The building will need a budget of over Tk 200 crore.

At present, FDC has nine shooting floors and most of them are in a sorry state with almost no modern facilities. Moreover, most of the floors are used for shooting of television commercials and programmes.

The members of Bangladesh Film Directors’ Association and Bangladesh Film Producers’ Association gave mixed reaction to the development.

Some welcomed the move while others said a commercial building might earn BFDC some bucks but will hamper the environment in the end.

‘Modern facilities are a must for today’s films. A well-designed multi-purpose building will be helpful,’ said Mushfiqur Rahman Gulzar, president of Bangladesh Film Directors’ Association.

But senior director Sohanur Rahman Sohan questioned the rationale behind the move, saying ‘A multi-purpose commercial building will destroy FDC which we know as a film hub. Why would a government institute need to construct buildings to earn money?’