None
Three-day Poush Mela underway
Child artistes present a dance recital on Friday.— Snigdha Zaman

A three-day Poush Mela, celebrating the spirit of the Bengali month of Poush, began on Friday at the Nazrul Mancha of Bangla Academy in Dhaka.

Organised by a platform called Poush Mela Udzapan Parishad, it features folk music and dance as well as stalls selling different types of pithas (traditional cakes) usually made in winter, pottery and handicrafts.

The fair was inaugurated by cultural affairs minister Asaduzzaman Noor in the morning.

About 20 stalls were set up round the elevated Nazrul Mancha to cater to the visiting people, who came in great numbers along with their friends and family.

The day’s programme began with the artistes of different cultural organisations entertaining the crowd with their performances celebrating the winter and traditional rituals.

The artistes of Swabhumi Lekhok Shilpy Goshthi presented several songs in chorus, including Money Sadh Loy Jaigo Phira Amar Gaye and Sundor Subarno Tarunno Labonno.

The members of Banhishikha presented the song Aye Chhute Aye Re Aye. They also presented Gram-er Naojowan Hindu Mosolman, a song upholding the secular spirit of traditional festivities in Bangladesh.

In solo renditions, Abu Bakar Siddique presented the very popular folk number Amar Haar Kaala Korlam Re, while Fahim Hossain Chowdhury rendered Rabindranath Tagore’s song Sheuli Saaje Bhor Holo.

Soloists Biman Chandra Biswas and Mamun Zahid Khan also performed in the morning.

There were also several group dance recitals presented by the artistes of different organisations. Among them, Spandan presented a piece synchronised with the song E Mati Noy Jongibader, while Bhabna presented another with Nao Chharia Paal Uraiya De.

Besides, members of Muktadhara Sangskriti Charcha Kendra recited poems in chorus.

Sirajum Munira, who attended the fair on Friday, highly praised the initiative.

‘It’s like a throwback to the traditional village fair held during winter. A great opportunity for the urban residents, who can know more their roots and enjoy a relaxing time,’ she said.