None
Spandan celebrates 22nd anniv
Spandan artistes present a dance recital at Music and Dance Centre of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Sunday. — Snigdha Zaman

Popular dance troupe Spandan celebrated its 22nd founding anniversary through a programme at the Music and Dance Centre of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Sunday.

The programme included a discussion session and performances by the artistes of the organisation.

One of the highlights of the show was a dance production titled ‘Janmechhi Ei Deshe,’ compiled by Mahmud Selim and directed by noted dancer Anik Bose, who also performed along with other dancers including Kastari Mukherjee.

Janmechhi Ei Deshe highlighted the cultural and natural heritage of Bangladesh though a combination of patriotic songs and rhythmic moves and steps by the performers.

The 55-minute production was designed to recreate rituals and practices central to the Bengali identity, including harvest, Nabanno, Pahela Baishakh, baul practitioners, rice husking through dheki (traditional rice husker) and so on.

Also, the performers offered a glimpse into the 1971 war of independence and the traditional features of the six seasons.

A number of songs were used to recreate these moments, features and rituals, including Dhano Dhanne Pushpe Bhora, Esho He Shyamolo Sundoro, and O Dhan Bhangere.

Apart from the production, there were also several group dance recitals synchronised with songs such as Mom Mor Megher Shangi and Anandoloke Mongolaloke.

Earlier, a discussion session was held in which cultural affairs minister Asaduzzaman Noor was present as chief guest.

Among others, Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy director general Liaquat Ali Lucky, Bangladesh Nritya Shilpi Sangstha president Minu Haque, and Spandan’s acting president Rezaur Rahman Sinha were also present on the occasion.

At the session, seasoned dancer Rahiza Khanom Jhunu was honoured by Spandan for her service and dedication to dance. The honorary award included a crest and a quilt.