None
Selim Al Deen’s 9th death anniv on Saturday
Selim Al Deen

Saturday marks the 9th death anniversary of the iconic playwright Selim Al Deen.

Al Deen, sometimes fondly called Natyacharya, will be remembered by his students at Jahangirnagar University, where he taught until his death, and theatre activists elsewhere in the country.

The commemoration will begin by placing wreaths at his tomb at the university.

Bangladesh Gram Theatre and Dhaka Theatre, in association with the cultural affairs ministry and Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, will organise a four-day memorial festival starting Saturday.

It will be held at the academy and feature a seminar and three of Al Deen’s plays.

Theatre professor Syed Jamil Ahmed will deliver the keynote speech at the seminar at 3pm Saturday at the Seminar Room of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy.

The three plays – Basan, Granthikgan Kohe and Sakuntala – will be staged at the academy’s Experimental Theatre Hall on successive days.

Meanwhile, theatre troupe Swapnadal will organise a two-day festival. As part of it, Al Deen’s play Hargaj will be staged on Saturday at the Experimental Theatre Hall while Swapnadal’s monodrama Helen Keller will be staged on Sunday at the Studio Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy.

Selim Al-Deen (1949-2008) was a pioneer of neo-theatre movement in Bangladesh, a theoretician, scholar, and a professor at the Department of Drama and Dramatics at Jahangirnagar University. He is credited with developing a ‘new drama form’ based on the narrative style of traditional performing arts.

He negated the conventional concept of theatre, calling it ‘western-influenced,’ and initiated the development of a different theatre form based on local tradition.

He also successfully implemented his theory in all of his 18 plays including Shakuntala, Kittonkhola, Keramat Mongol, Hat Hadai, Chaka, Joiboti Koinnar Mon, Hargaj, Bonopangshul, Nimojjon and Dhaboman.

Selim Al Deen was also a radio play, teleplay and screenplay writer. And two films – Chaka and Kittankhola – were made based on his plays.

So far, different local and Kolkata-based troupes have staged his plays.

Among them, Chaka was translated as The Wheel into English and produced by two troupes in New York. It was also translated into Hindi and produced by the Delhi-based National School of Drama in India.

Hargaj, on the other hand, was translated into the Swedish language.

In 1974, Al Deen joined as a lecturer at the Bangla department of Jahangirnagar University. The drama and dramatics department was opened under his guidance, and he served as its founder chairman, in 1986.

In 1995, Al Deen completed his PhD from Jahangirnagar University on Medieval Bangla Drama. He also compiled Bangla Natyakosh — the only anthology of Bangla drama-related terms and forms of traditional theatre. Al Deen’s plays are included in the curricula of the University of Dhaka, Jahangirnagar University, Jadavpur University and Rabindra Bharati University in India.

He received several awards including Ekushey Padak in 2007, Bangla Academy Award in 1984, Best Tele-playwright Award in 1994 and National Film Award for Best Dialogue in 1994.