None
Chinese troupe enthrals Dhaka audience
Henan Art Troupe performs at National Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Sunday. — Snigdha Zaman

Members of the famous Henan Art Troupe entertained the Dhaka audience with Chinese dance, acrobatics, martial arts and instrumental music at the National Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy.

The two-day show, beginning on Sunday, was organised as part of a yearlong cultural exchange programme between Bangladesh and China.

Cultural affairs minister Asaduzzaman Noor inaugurated the programme on Sunday, with cultural affairs secretary Akhtari Mamtaz, Chargé d'Affaires of Chinese Embassy Yang Shichao, Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy director general Liaquat Ali Lucky and Bangladesh-China Friendship Centre president Delwar Hossain in attendance.

‘We have signed a Memorandum of Understanding with our Chinese partners for yearlong cultural exchange in 2017. This show marks the beginning of that exchange. A team of Bangladeshi artistes will visit China very soon,’ said Asaduzzaman Noor.

Afterwards, two Bangladeshi troupes welcomed the visiting Henan Art Troupe with a dance recital and chorus song.

Rewaz Performers’ School commenced the show with a choreography titled Expedition while Dhaka Sangskritik Dal presented a Chinese folk song in chorus.

The artistes of Henan Art Troupe then took the hall by storm with a synchronised demonstration of Shaolin Kung Fu. The audience were captivated by a combination of vigour and swiftness that form the crux of the martial art, one of the oldest institutionalised styles of Chinese martial arts.

The next performance was a solo instrumental piece on the traditional Chinese violin known as erhu. The artistes performed a folk tune of erhu.

It was then time for a little surprise as the troupe played the tune of the popular Rabindranath Tagore song, Gram Chhara Oi Rangamatir Path, on erhu.

This was followed by an eye-catching acrobatic show. Female members of the visiting troupe left the audience spellbound with their feats of physical balance, juggling, coordination and gymnastics.

The male members followed with a performance of Shaolin Boxing, a distinctive boxing style popular at Shaolin in the Chinese province of Henan.

‘It was great to watch firsthand such amazing performances by the Chinese professionals,’ said Partha Pratim, who was present at the show.