None
Bangladesh-Tripura cultural fest underway
Artistes present a dance recital at the festival. — Snigdha Zaman

A three-day cultural festival featuring performances by artistes from Bangladesh and the Indian state of Tripura is underway at Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy.

Organised by a platform called Bangladesh-Tripura Cultural Festival Parshad, the event features music, dance, theatre, seminar and an art show at different venues in the academy.

Finance minister Abul Maal Abdul Muhith inaugurated the festival titled ‘Bangladesh-Tripura Cultural Festival’ on Thursday at the Nandan Mancha stage of the academy. Also on hand were Tripura’s MBB University vice-chancellor Goutam Bose, the festival’s organising committee co-chairman Nasiruddin Yousuff, and Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy director general Liaquat Ali Lucky.

Ramendu Majumdar, chairman of Bangladesh-Tripura Cultural Festival Parshad, presided over the inauguration ceremony, while member secretary Selim Shamsul Huda Chowdhury delivered the welcome speech.

‘The people of Tripura lent their support to the cause of Bangladesh’s liberation war in 1971. We are very much indebted to them for that,’ said Abul Maal Abdul Muhith. ‘Tripura has many cultural aspects in common with Bangladesh, which makes it imperative that we foster better communication between the two neighbours.’

The inauguration was followed by a vibrant cultural show in which local and Tripura artistes performed.

An art show featuring artworks by 22 local and 13 Tripura artists was also inaugurated on Thursday at the Gallery 04 of National Art Gallery.

Eminent local artist Rafiqun Nabi inaugurated the show that features works by senior local artists Samarjit Roy Chowdhury, Hashem Khan, Jamal Ahmed, Kanak Chanpa Chakma, and Tripura artists Paltu Barman, Hara Krishna Pal, and Swapan Nandi, among others.

On Friday, poets from Bangladesh and Tripura recited their poems at a recitation programme at the Studio Theatre Hall of Shilpakala Academy, while local theatre troupe Theatre staged a show of Syed Shamsul Haq’s Payer Awaz Pawa Jay at the Experimental Theatre Hall.

Today, a seminar on the cultural ties between Bangladesh and Tripura will be held at the seminar room.