None
Winter fair entertains city dwellers
Tangail-based cultural troupe Charan presents Behular Nacharai at Dhaka University’s faculty of fine arts on Friday.— New Age photo

A daylong winter fair titled Raser Mela entertained the attendees with traditional performing arts and winter delicacies such as date juice, puffed rice and date molasses at the Bakultala of Faculty of Fine Arts of Dhaka University on Friday.

The festival was organised by Range Bhora Bango and inaugurated by the cultural affairs ministry secretary Aktari Mamtaz, with professor Hayat Mamud, also president of the organisation, in attendance.

‘I represent a generation that grew up with traditional winter delicacies like date juice and cakes and the winter fairs. But today we are witnessing a rapid decline in interest in all that is traditional, both in the cities and the rural areas,’ said Aktari Mamtaz, praising the organisers for the initiative.

‘We are moving away from our roots, our tradition, which is not a very comforting thought,’ said Hayat Mamud. ‘We must work together to revive interest in our tradition and learn to live with it,’ he added.

The speakers also mentioned that this kind of fairs, which dates back hundreds of years, was typically organised in villages with the advent of winter, welcoming and celebrating it, but it is fast becoming a thing of the past.

Following the inauguration ceremony, traditional singer Ali Hossain entertained the audience with a captivating performance of Jari Gaan, one of the most popular traditional music genres.

Tangail-based cultural troupe Charan performed Behular Bhasan, presenting the legend of Behula of Monosamangal through a combination of music and dance.

The city dwellers who visited the fair expressed their joy at having the opportunity to attend the fair and especially for the date juice offered on earthen pots.

‘It was great to be here and I enjoyed a plate of date juice with puffed rice,’ said Rashed Hasan, who came with his family to visit the fair.