None
National pitha festival begins
A shop at the National Pitha Festival displays various delicious cakes. — Snighdha Zaman

Pitha, a traditional cake made of race, has long been an integral part of winter festivities in Bangladesh, but over the years it lost its popularity especially in the urban areas.

To give the urban people a taste of winter delicacies and reacquaint them with the tradition, a platform called National Pitha Utsab Udjapan Parishad has organised a festival on the open ground of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy.

This is the tenth edition of the annual National Pitha Utsab, and features around 150 types of pitha from different parts of the country as well as performances including traditional music, theatre, dance and magic.

The festival, which began on Monday and will continue until January 30, was inaugurated by finance minister Abul Maal Abdul Muhith, with thespian Ramendu Majumdar and singer Syed Abdul Hadi in attendance.

M Hamid, president of the National Pitha Utsab Udjapan Parishad, presided over the inauguration ceremony.

Praising the initiative, Muhith said, ‘Everyone in my generation would remember how our houses smelled of delicious pithas in the winter and both the children and adults enjoyed them.’

‘That tradition is fast disappearing. I hope festivals like this will help revive people’s interest in pithas,’ he added.

M Hamid, in his speech, said, ‘The National Pitha Utsab Udjapan Parishad has been organising the festival for the last ten years with the aim of bringing winter delicacies to the urban people, who might otherwise find it hard to prepare them on their own.’

Visitors to the festival can choose from the colourful pithas that come in various sizes, shapes and prices – available in the 35 makeshift stalls set up on the ground.

Among the pithas are Malpoya, Malai, Pata, Rosh Phul, Khejur Kinni, Bhajapuri, Bou Pitha, Kola Pitha, Pati Sapta, Rosh Golap, Nakshi Pitha, Pantua, Ilish Pitha, Jhinuk Pitha, Puli Pitha, Dudh Chitai and Hriday Haran.

While some of them are generally found everywhere, there are many that are indigenous to a specific region in the country, and the festival brought them all together.

On Monday, people of different age-groups were found to be roaming about the ground, checking out pithas from different regions, and inquiring about their cooking recipes and so on.

Following the inauguration, a short cultural show was held in which traditional singers from different parts of the country performed.

Bhawaiya singer Safiul Alam Raja commenced the show with a number dedicated to pitha, which goes like Monda Pitha Khaibar Chay. He also entertained the audience with another popular Bhawaiya number: Oki Gariyal Bhai.

Sanat Kumar Biswas followed with a traditional song on pitha of the Jessore region, while the dancers of Falguni presented two recitals synchronised with the songs Baul-er Ekatara and Khairunlo Tor Lamba Mathar Chul.