None
‘I deal with people’s innermost thoughts’
Playwright Masum Reza said as a writer he tries to explore the deep recesses of human mind to bring out people’s innermost thoughts, feelings and desires that drive their actions, and define who they are.

In an interview with New Age, the playwright talked about his motivations for writing and occasional ventures into direction.

‘I consider myself to be an explorer of people’s innermost thoughts. In my dramas – theatre or television – I deal with people’s dilemmas, the psychological dynamics and social-economic conflicts facing them, as well as the struggles between good and evil,’ said Masum Reza.

His latest theatre production, Surgaon, also shows this conflict between good and evil. The play, which was also directed by Reza for Desh Natok, premiered at the National Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Friday.

‘This is the second time that I have directed a play. My first directorial venture was Nrityapuran, which was premiered in 2000.

‘To be frank, I did not want to direct Surgaon. But circumstances compelled me to reconsider after the original director had fallen sick and there was no one else to replace him,’ he said.

Reza also talked about the story of the play.

Surgaon revolves around a fakir who comes back to a village after having disappeared some 180 years ago.

During his journey round the globe, he says, he has collected souvenirs given to him as gifts by prominent figures including Sir Thomas Moore, a queen of Babylon, Hindu mythological character Draupadi, and a friend of Socrates.

This sets in motion a series of events including his arrest in the hands of security officials identifying themselves as members of Kaal Rokkhi, who accuse him of stealing the artefacts, and a resultant conflict.

In the interview, Masum Reza also said right now he is writing two teleplay serials – Chhannachhara and Aynaghar – for Banglavision and ATN Bangla, respectively.

So far, he said, he has written over 300 teleplays and 20 plays for theatre.

‘Scriptwriters have a greater scope to work in the industry because there are so many channels today, but the quality of plays has fallen because of low budget,’ he said.

But that may change soon as the people involved with the industry are being aware of this issue, he added.

Masum Reza is involved with the Federation of Television Professionals Organisation (FTPO), an association that advocates for the rights and interests of the TV professionals.