None
Diverse cultural heritages presented
A santal troupe performs at faculty of fine arts of Dhaka University on Friday. –Snigdha Zaman

Ethnic communities living in different parts of the country presented their respective cultural heritages at a two-day Adivasi Sangskritik Utsab held at faculty of fine arts of Dhaka University.

The festival organised by Environment and Development ended on Saturday. It featured music and dance presentation by different ethnic communities, a seminar on struggles and cultures of ethnic communities.

On the concluding day, ethnic groups like santal, orao, garo and others performed.

The day’s event began with a traditional dom dance presentation by a santal troupe from Dinajpur.

Clad in their distinctive attires, the santal artistes danced with acoustics of traditional instruments such as tunga, ghanti, dhol, ting tong and pungcha.

Another santal troupe from the same region named Sarjam Baha Sangskritik Dal displayed a colourful dance recital.

Artistes from orao community displayed a traditional wedding dance in their distinctive styles.

The show ended with presentation of a group dance recital in which artistes from different ethnic communities performed with an awareness generating song presented by experimental band Madol.

The festival was inaugurated on Friday by Adivasi Forum president Jyotirindra Bodhipriya Larma. Cultural affairs minister Asaduzzaman Noor attended the inauguration as the chief guest.

The cultural affairs minister discussed on importance of incorporation of ethnic communities in the country’s development programmes.

Jyotirindra Bodhipriya Larma, on the other hand, focused on struggles of ethnic communities saying, ‘Most of the ethnic groups are suffering from social-political and economic discriminations.’

Pavel Partha presented a paper on struggles of ethnic communities in a seminar held following the inauguration.

Manosh Chowdhury, Saurav Sikder, Shantanu Majumder and Bipasha Chakma discussed on the paper.

In the afternoon, different ethnic troupes presented distinctive music and dance recitals.