None
Sylhet to host cultural fest from Feb 22
A 10-day cultural festival, organised by Bengal Foundation, will being on February 22 at the Abul Mal Abdul Muhit Krira Complex in Sylhet.

The festival will feature music, exhibition, theatre, literary conference, craft fair and film screening, said the organisers at a press conference held at Ruposhi Bangla Hotel on Sunday.

They said programmes will take place at different venues of the complex named after prominent figures like Hason Raja, Shah Abdul Karim, Syed Muztaba Ali and Radha Raman Dutt.

Bengal Foundation, they said, is organising the festival for the first time to promote cultural activities in the country. Sylhet has been selected as the venue of the first edition of the festival as the district has rich cultural heritage, they said.

The festival, dedicated to Gyantapas Abdur Razzaq, will be inaugurated by finance minister Abul Mal Abdul Muhith.

Bengal Foundation chairman Abul Khair, Dhaka Bank managing director Syed Mabrur Rahman, Channel-i MD Faridur Reza Sagor, Bengal Foundation advisor Abul Momen, among others were present at the press conference.

Musical shows will feature 383 singers and bands including Rezwana Chowdhury Bannya, Khairul Anam Shakil, Aditi Mohsin, Kuddus Boyati, Chandrana Majumder and Joler Gaan.

Besides, the organisers said, Indian singers like Haimanti Shukla, Srikanto Acharya and Parvati Baul will also perform in the festival.

Fifty local authors and poets including Hasan Azizul haque, Imdadul Haque Milan, Muhammad Zafar Iqbal and Rabiul Hossain, along with 23 writers from India like Samaresh Majumdar will participate at the three-day literary conference, which is scheduled to begin on February 24.

The festival will also feature an art camp in which eminent artists like Rafiqun Nabi, Jamal Ahmed, Shishir Bhattacharia and Monirul Islam will participate.

Local films including Television, Anil Bagchir Ekdin, Runway and Titas Ekti Nadir Naam will be screened and theatre productions will be staged by troupes such as Subachan, Theatre Art Unit, Loko Natyadal and Manipuri Theatre.

A fair featuring traditional crafts from 10 districts will also be organised as part of the 10-day festival, the organizers said.

The audience can enter at the venues doing online registration for free, said the organisers.