None
SSJ’s celebrations kick off
Spandan artistes present a dance recital on Wednesday at the Central Shaheed Minar. –Snigdha Zaman

A 14-day festival, organised by Sammilita Sangskritik Jote to observe International Mother Language Day, began on Wednesday at the Central Shaheed Minar.

In the opening day of the festival, members of the organisation paid tribute to the language movement veterans presenting songs, poems and a street drama.

The 14-day programme will be held in two venues in the capital. The first 10-day programme will be held at the Central Shaheed Minar, and then it will be held at Rabindra Sarabor in Dhanmondi.

Cultural personality and language movement veteran Kamal Lohani inaugurated the programme as the chief guest.

Jatiya Kabita Parishad president Muhammad Samad, Bangladesh Ganosangeet Parishad president Fakir Alamgir, Bangladesh Abritti Samannay Parishad general secretary Ahkamullah, among others were present at the inauguration ceremony presided over by Sammilita Sangskritik Jote president Golam Kuddus.

They criticised the government, judiciary and the private sectors for not giving due respect to Bangla language even after 65 years of the glorious language movement.

When February 21 is observed globally as the International Mother Language Day, they lamented, the objective of the glorious movement has not yet been fulfilled in the country.

Following the inauguration, Spandan artistes presented a colourful recital synchronised with a song glorifying the language movement titled ‘E Amar Ahangkar’.

It was followed by Abdul Wadud’s rendition of Rabindranath Tagore’s patriotic song Sarthak Janam Amar. He also sang a song glorifying the language movement penned by Abdul Latif titled ‘Michhile Amar Bhai’.

Nasima Shahin Fancy presented Kazi Nazrul Islam’s popular patriotic song Khanti Sonar Cheye Khanti and Phashaler Mathe Meghnar Tirey, a patriotic song penned by poet Shamsur Rahman.

Sangbrita Abritti Charcha O Bikash Kendra members paid respect to the language movement heroes presenting a collage of poems titled ‘Ekush Maney Matha Noto Na Kora’ that featured poems penned by great poets like Shamsur Rahman, Syed Shamsul Haq and Abu Zafar Obaidullah.

The opening day’s programme ended with presentation of a street drama titled ‘Tahader Katha’ by Padatik Natya Sangsad. Written and directed by Maminul Haque, the play featured the sorry state of day-labourers and garment workers.

Sammilita Sangskritik Jote has been organising the observation programme since 1984.