None
Asian Curatorial Forum begins
A foreign curator speaks at the National Art Gallery of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Thursday. –New Age photo

A three-day Asia Curatorial Forum 2017 began at the National Art Gallery of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Thursday with participation of 14 curators from 12 countries.

Curators from China, Vietnam, Sri Lanka, Maldives, Malaysia, Pakistan, Thailand, South Korea, India, Taiwan, Nepal and Bangladesh will take part in panel discussions, presentations, a workshop and other events at the conference.

Bengal Foundation has organised the programme in partnership with Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, and two Taiwanese art organisations including Kuandu Museum of Fine Arts and National Culture and Arts Foundation.

Bengal Foundation director general Luva Nahid Chowdhury and Taiwanese Kuandu Museum of Fine Arts director Teh I Chu discussed in the morning session of the opening day.

The opening day also featured two panel discussions and two presentations.

Local curator Tayeba Begum Lipi, Nepalese curator Sangeeta Thapa and Thai curator Pichaya Suphavanij participated in the panel discussion titled ‘A Question of Perspective: Scale and Perimeter of Action.’

The session was moderated by Hadrien Diez, adviser of Bengal Foundation’s visual arts programme.

Umair Badheeu from Maldives, Zarmeene Shah from Pakistan, Feng Feng from China and Lian Heng Yeoh from Malaysia participated in the second session titled ‘Zoom in/zoom out, Transcending the Local Context’.

The session was moderated by Kuandu Museum of Fine Arts curator Nobuo Takamori.

The day’s event also included two presentations by local artists. Wakilur Rahman talked on an art gallery named Kalakendra while Shehzad Chowdhury talked about a platform of artists named Longitude: Latitude.

Tomorrow’s programme will include a presentation on Dhaka Art Summit- 2016 and a panel discussion titled ‘Shaping New Conversation.’

The concluding day will feature a panel discussion titled ‘Old Narrative and New Perspective,’ along with two presentations.

The art event also includes a two-day workshop on curatorial activities.