None
A riot of colour as country hails spring
A troupe presents dance at Dhaka University's Bakultala on Monday.-- Snigdha Zaman

With Pahela Phalgun ushering in the season of spring in a display of colours, the country on Monday observed Basanta Utsab with flowers, poems and songs as the seasonal cycle is in transition from a bone-chilling, gloomy winter to the festivity of colours and love.

It is the day to say goodbye to the winter and hello to the spring on the first day of the Bangla month of Phalgun. It is the day painted with bright colours and joyous tunes all around.

Flowers, of red, yellow and orange colours, seem to be wheat women would like to wear in their hair.

Dhaka, especially the Dhaka University campus, assumed a festive look. Procession, rallies and cultural programmes on Basanta (spring) welcomed the king of the seasons and the sprouting of fresh leaves on trees.

Like previous years, Jatiya Basanta Utsab Udjapan Parishad organised the spring festival at Bakul Tala of the faculty of fine arts of the university in the morning.

Besides, different socio-cultural organisations also held various programmes in the capital and elsewhere of the country in celebration of the day.

Hundreds of people, mostly the youths clad in colourful saris and punjabis, gathered at Bakul Tala in the morning to participate in the spring festival.

‘Phalgun cannot be described; it is to be felt only. Nobody wants to stay at home. Hence, we are all out here celebrating spring,’ said Anamul Huq Sabuj, a final year student of Dhaka University.

The morning session ended with a colourful procession joined in by people of all walks of life.

Meanwhile, like previous years Samageet Sanskritik Prangan held spring festival at Bat-tala of Dhaka University with the theme ‘Jagao Pran, Prakritigan Ey Phalgune’.

The spring festival began with an instrumental piece by Bulbul Lalitakala Academy artistes.

A group of ethnic minority artistes also presented a dance recital while singer Kafil Ahmed, Krishnakali Islam, band Leela, Joler Gan, Sohojia and Samageet also rendered songs to enthral hundreds of visitors.