None
Adele sweeps Grammy awards
Adele swept the Grammy Awards on Sunday, taking home statuettes for the top prizes - album, record and song of the year - in a shock, history-making victory over Beyonce on a night marked by political statements and emotional tributes.

Adele, 28, won all five Grammys for which she was nominated, including for her comeback album ‘25’ and her soaring ballad ‘Hello.’ She became the first person in Grammy history to win the top three awards twice, following her wins for her last album ‘21’ in 2012.

Beyonce, 35, had gone into Sunday’s awards show with a leading nine nominations for her powerful ‘Lemonade’ album about race, feminism, and betrayal. She had been hoping to win her first album of the year Grammy.

Adele, who now has a career total of 15 Grammys, seemed stunned, telling reporters backstage that she ‘felt like it was her (Beyonce’s) time to win.’

‘My queen and my idol is Queen B. I adore you,’ the British singer said to Beyonce, seated in the front row, as she accepted her award.

‘I can’t possibly accept this award, and I’m very humble and very grateful. But my artist of my life is Beyonce. This album for me, the ‘Lemonade’ album, was so monumental,’ she added.

Beyonce and Adele also had the most talked-about moments on the Grammys stage.

In her first public appearance since her announcement 12 days ago that she is expecting twins, Beyonce donned a sheer, glittering gold dress and halo crown to perform her ballads ‘Love Drought’ and ‘Sandcastles.’

Singing seated on a chair and surrounded by petals, she also appeared in video projections wearing a gold-chain string bikini.

Moments later, Adele literally stopped the show after flubbing the start of a tribute to the late British pop star George Michael.

‘I’m sorry. I know it’s live TV,’ she said, cursing, stopping her slow ballad version of Michael’s ‘Fastlove’ and asking to start again. ‘I can’t mess this up for him (Michael),’ she said. She later apologized for causing any offense.

Later, Minneapolis band The Time and Bruno Mars performed an up-tempo tribute to Prince, celebrating his musical legacy.

More about: