None
Rafiq Azad remembered
Distinguished guests hold a collection of poetry of the late poet Rafiq Azad launched at Bangla Academy on Monday.— New Age photo

The Ekushey Padak winning poet Rafiq Azad was remembered on his 75th birth anniversary at a commemorative programme held on Monday at Bangla Academy.

Organised by Rafiq Azad Smrity Parshad, the programme featured discussion, recitation of Azad’s poems, music and launching of a collection of the late poet.

Emeritus professor Rafiqul Islam, Bangla Academy director general Shamsuzzaman Khan, Jatiya Kabita Parishad president Abdus Samad, its general secretary Tariq Sujat, Rafiq Azad’s widow Dilara Hafiz, among others spoke on Rafiq Azad and his poems.

The discussion session was presided over by poet Rabiul Hussain, president of Rafiq Azad Smrity Parshad.

‘I feel proud as famous poet like Rafiq Azad was my student. He had developed a unique language in his poetry and thereby contributed a lot to the contemporary poetry’, Rafiqul Islam said.

Claiming Rafiq Azad as a leading poet of contemporary time, Abdus Samad said, ‘His distinctive style of fusing love and rebellion gave him a permanent place in Bangla literature.’

Following the discussion, a collection of Azad’s poems was published. Titled ‘Rafiq Azad-er Kabita 75’, the book features 75 poems by the late poet.

Rafiq Azad’s famous poems such as Pratikkha, Bhat De Haramjada and Jadi Bhalobasa Pai were recited at the programme.

Tagore singers Mahiuzzaman Moyna and Sutapa Chowdhury rendered popular Rabindra Sangeet titled ‘Ki Gabo Ami Ki Shonabo’ and ‘Andhokarer Utsa Theke’ respectively at the programme.

Rafiq Azad, who has 45 collections of poetry to his credit, died on March 12, 2016 at the age of 74.

Azad’s first book Asombhaber Paye was published in 1973. Some of his popular collections include Shimabaddha Jale Shimita Shabuje, Haturir Niche Jiban, Parikirna Panshala Amar Swadesh, Shahstra Sundar, Khub Beshi Durey Noy, Khama Karo Bahaman Hey Udar Amia Batas, Karo Asrupat, Prem O Biraher Kabita, Pagla Garad Thekay Premikar Chiti, Apar Aranya and Moulabir Man Bhalo Nai.

Azad was also a valiant freedom fighter. He was a member of ‘Kaderia Bahini’ during the liberation war in 1971.