None
20 troupes present dance recitals at Shilpakala Academy
Artistes of Ghashphul Nadi present a dance recital at Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Wednesday. —Snigdha Zaman

Twenty leading dance troupes entertained the audience presenting classical, contemporary and folk dance recitals at Nandan Mancha of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Wednesday.

It was the concluding day’s event of the three-day spring celebrations festival, which was organised by Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy. In the first two days of the festival noted artistes and troupes presented music, dance and recitation.

Bangladesh Dance Artistes’ Association, a platform of dance troupes of the country, coordinated the last day’s show featuring only dance recitals.

‘This is for the first time that such a big number of troupes participated in a show to welcome the spring’, claimed Minu Haque, president of the association.

Dance troupe Nataraj commenced the show presenting a vibrant recital synchronised with Rabindranath Tagore’s song glorifying the spring titled ‘Aji Basanta Jagrata’.

Clad in basanti colour attires and flowers, artistes of Jhankar, who are mostly underprivileged children, presented a recital synchronised with the song Madal Baje Dhitang Dhitang.

Jago Art Centre followed with a folk dance recital synchronised with the acoustics of traditional instruments such as dhol, kartal and flute.

Dance troupe Pushpanjali presented a spectacular recital following the classical bharatnatyam style synchronised with Tagore song Ektuku Chhoya Lage.

Kathak Nritya Sampraday presented a classical kathak dance recital synchronised with patriotic song Abak Chokhe Desher Paney.

Dibya Sangskritik Sangathan presented a dance recital based on Rabindranath Tagore’s popular song Gram Chhara Oi Rangamatir Path, which glorifies the natural beauty of rural Bangladesh.

Shah Abdul Karim’s popular song Basante Batashe was presented by two troupes- Spandan and Nrityarang—in different styles at the show.

Bangladesh Academy of Fine Arts, Nrityalok, Nandanik, Nrityanandan, Angikam, Pallavi and others also presented spectacular dance recitals at the programme.