None
Lack of initiative from government criticised
Language Movement veterans and cultural activists complain that programmes organised marking the International Mother Language Day on February 21 do not bear the spirit of the day. — Snigdha Zaman

Language Movement veterans have criticised the government for not taking effective programmes to celebrate International Mother Language Day globally to promote Bangla and Bengali culture.

Even the programmes that are taken by the government agencies celebrating the day on February 21 in the country, they say, are inadequate and do not bear the spirit of the day.

In most cases, they said, the government agencies take run-of-the-mill cultural programmes featuring typical discussions and presentations of the same songs and poems by the same organisations or artistes.

The successive governments in the past 17 years have failed to capitalise the opportunities that were created to promote Bangla and Bengali culture globally after February 21 was declared International Mother Language Day on 17 November 1999 by the UNESCO, they think.

It was formally recognised by the United Nations General Assembly in its resolution establishing 2008 as International Year of Languages.

‘When International Mother Language Day is a worldwide annual observance on 21 February to promote awareness of linguistic and cultural diversity and multilingualism, the government should have taken programmes to promote Bangla and Bengali culture globally through its foreign missions,’ said Language Movement veteran and cultural activist Kamal Lohani.

Let alone globally, Lohani lamented, observance of the day at home by the government agencies such as Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, Bangla Academy and International Mother Language Institute was stereotypical and ineffective.

‘There is no representation of ethnic cultures in such programmes. Sometimes, responsible agencies invite foreign artistes in such programmes to justify their celebrations of International Mother Language Day, but participating foreign performers are mostly not professional artistes, rather employees of foreign missions,’ Lohani said.

These agencies, Lohani suggested, should invite ethnic cultural troupes and foreign researchers and artistes who practised Bangla music or did researches on Bangla and Bengali culture.

Professor emeritus Rafiqul Islam, who took photographs of the historic Language Movement on February 21, 1952, said Bangla language and culture could be promoted globally by the government agencies by creating a platform for local researchers and foreign scholars who would work on the Bangla language and culture.

‘Bangla needs to be recognised nationally and internationally. Bangla is a very rich language and by spreading it globally, we can actually brighten the image of the country,’ Rafiqul Islam said.

Eminent artist and also a language movement veteran Murtaza Bashir demanded that the government agencies should enhance their efforts for a better outcome.

Officials of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy, Bangla Academy and International Mother Language Institute, however, claimed that they were taking effective programmes

Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy director general Liaquat Ali Lucky said, ‘Writing letters, we request foreign missions to provide artistes for the International Mother Language Day programmes.’

‘We are trying to make the programmes more vibrant with participation of artistes from diverse backgrounds,’ added Lucky.

Bangle Academy director general Shamsuzzaman Khan said that the academy was working to promote Bangla globally taking effective programmes.

‘We also organise the international literary conferences every year with the participation of literary experts from across the globe,’ he said.

International Mother Language Institute director general Jinnat Imtiaz Ali said that the institute organised a number of seminars featuring international speakers marking the day.