None
Artists depict diverse subjects for contemporary viewers
Paintings by the contemporary artists depict Language Movement. –Snigdha Zaman

Contemporary artists are incorporating new subjects and elements while doing paintings on the historic Language Movement of 1952 to enrich their artworks for today’s viewers.

Instead of portraying typical subjects such as Shaheed Minar and public procession for paintings on the Language Movement, the contemporary artists feature an array of new topics such as calligraphies depicting Bangla alphabets and that of other languages, importance of the Language Movement in subsequent movements including the Liberation War, negligence of Bangla in present time and others.

‘Earlier, artists mostly glorified the Language Movement from historic perspective in their paintings. But, the contemporary artists incorporate the present day’s realities in such paintings by depicting the spirit of the International Mother Language Day, negligence on Bangla and others’, artist Biren Shome told New Age.

Shome and 34 other noted artists participated in a day-long art camp, held at the Central Shaheed Minar on February 15 and produced 35 paintings on the Language Movement, which would be preserved and collected by Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy.

Among others, Samarjit Roy Chowdhury, Abdul Mannan, Alakesh Ghosh, Farida Zaman, Naima Haque, Alaptagin Tushar and Samiran Chowdhury participated in the workshop.

Naima Haque paid her tribute to the International Mother Language Day by drawing alphabets from different languages.

Samarjit Roy Chowdhury’s untitled acrylic painting shows the Shaheed Minar with flowers on the pedestal.

Biren Shome depicted the Language Movement as an eternal source of inspiration for the nation by depicting a red sun on the black background.

Artist Pradyut Kumar Das depicted the negligence of Bangla by portraying a Bangla alphabet encircled with black colours.

‘We organised such an art camp for the first time where eminent artists painted on Language Movement and International Mother Language Day’, said Md Muniruzzaman, director of fine arts department of BSA, adding that the academy would organise more such programmes to inspire artists to work more on such themes.

‘We will collect these artworks,’ he said.