None
Samadhara holds recitation programme
Artistes recite poems of noted poets at the programme. — Snigdha Zaman

Samadhara, a monthly literary magazine, organised its annual poetry recitation programme at the National Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy on Thursday.

The event titled ‘Islami Bank-Samadhara Kabita Utsab 2017’, featured discussion, awards ceremony, book launch and poetry recitation.

The programme began with a discussion. Cultural affairs minister Asaduzzaman Noor attended the event as the chief guest. Poet Nurul Huda, poet Helal Hafiz, poet Nirmalendu Goon, vice-chairman of Islami Bank Ahsanul Alam and editor of Samadhara Saleh Nasir Uddin spoke at the event.

An awards ceremony followed.

This was the third annual event of Samadhara. The literary magazine introduced Samadhara Sahitto Puruskar in 2016. Last year the literary magazine awarded poet Helal Hafiz. This year the award went to poet Nirmalendu Goon.

Goon received a crest and cheque of Tk 25,000 as award.

Thanking the organisers for the award Nirmalendu Goon said that the honour will inspire him to write better. The poet further informed that he is currently establishing a library dedicated to poetry titled ‘Kobita Kunja books’ in Netrokona district.

Next Goon recited his poem titled ‘Mala’ as a tribute to the martyrs of the International Mother Language Day.

A poetry book titled ‘Padabalir Jatra’, containing poems of 200 upcoming poets, was launched at the programme.

At the poetry recitation evening fifteen recitation artistes, from different cultural organisations, performed a group recitation of a poetry production titled ‘Tomake Bhalobashi Bole’. Compiled and directed by Saleh Nasir Uddin, the production featured poems selected from the works of ten eminent poets including - Rabindranath Tagore, Kazi Nazrul Islam, Jibananda Das, Shamsur Rahman, Syed Shamsul Haq and Humayun Azad.

Masum Azizul Bashar, Nishi Kawsar, Shahnaz Dipti and Mehedi Hasan Akash, among others, took part in the performance.