None
Ferdous to promote Chittagong in film
National award winning actor Ferdous is excited about his upcoming film project, which will promote the scenic beauty, heritage and tourist spots of Chittagong.

According to Ferdous the film titled ‘Chattala Express’ is his brainchild and will be produced by Chittagong based RA Production.

‘The script of Chattala Express has been finalised. It will be an adventure story and will be filmed in different locations of Chittagong division,’ Ferdous told New Age.

Though his home district is in Comilla, Ferdous said he has fascination for Chittagong for its diverse natural resources as well as for his sweet memories regarding the place. ‘I made debut in acting through Buker Bhitor Agun, which was filmed in Chittagong and was first time released in the district in 1997,’ Ferdous said.

‘I have visited Chittagong many times for shootings and always wanted to do something to promote the region,’ added Ferdous.

Ferdous is optimistic the upcoming film featuring scenic locations of Chittagong will bring the local people back to the cinemas.

‘The film business in Chittagong is undergoing a difficult time. Even a few years ago, a few hundreds of cinemas used to operate in Chittagong but now only 2/3 of those are in operation. I am optimistic that Chattala Express will generate interest among the film lovers of Chittagong and they will go to cinemas to watch the film,’ said Ferdous.

Ferdous and RA Production will hold a talent hunt contest in Chittagong in search of the actress who will play opposite Ferdous in the film.

‘Except me, all the members of the film will be from Chittagong. We will hold talent hunt competition in Chittagong in search of the new faces,’ he said.

Ferdous also said he would initiate a similar film project based on Sylhet if Chattala Express becomes successful.

‘Most of our films are Dhaka-based and I want to decentralise the industry from the capital to other districts,’ the actor said.

Ferdous also said he was busy in acting in several films including MInhaz Ovi’s Mritkanya, Abir Khan’s Postmaster 71, Moushumi’s Shunya Hridoy, AK Sohel’s Pabitra Bhalobasa and others.

More about: