None
Shadhona’s presentation earns plaudits in India: Lubna Marium
Shadhona members pose with Indian cultural personalities after a show at Khajuraho in India.

Cultural organisation Shadhona that represented Bangladesh in the prestigious Khajuraho Dance Festival held in February in India earned plaudits from art lovers and scholars, said Lubna Marium, the artistic director of the troupe, after returning to Dhaka last week.

Lubna, who curated the presentation, said Bangladesh was featured as the guest country with a pavilion dedicated to promoting Bangladesh’s culture and arts through displays and daily performances in the four-decade old festival, which takes place every year near the amazing 10th Century Temples at Khajuraho in Madhya Pradesh.

The brightly decorated Bangladesh pavilion, she said, became a major attraction within the festival grounds.

‘On popular demand the performances were held twice daily in the afternoon and in the evening. Each day the Bangladesh team started their presentation with a procession, including the ‘dhuli’ from Bangladesh,’ she said.

The festively decorated temple town of Khajuraho very prominently announced Bangladesh’s participation through colourful posters, she said.

Shadhona’s presentation titled ‘Bangladesh – A Land of Myths and Rivers’ had four components – daily dance performances, an exposition of Bangladesh’s cultural practices through exquisitely painted ‘pata-chitras’, a photographic exhibition on Bangladesh’s rivers and a display of the arts and crafts of Bangladesh, including the revival of Muslin weaving.

This was Shadhona’s second consecutive participation in the four-decade old festival in India, she said.

Shadhona presented ‘rai beshe’, baul songs and dances, a dance-drama based on Nazrul’s songs and short-story titled ‘Badolo Borishone’, an exposition of the Manasa Mangal performances, Manipuri dances from Bangladesh, Tagore’s ‘Brikkhoropon’ – or tree-planting ceremony and finally dances based on songs from the Language Movement.

Three choreographers – Shabbir Ahmed Khan, Sweety Das Chowdhury and Amit Chowdhury, choreographed the dances.

Shafi Mondol, enhanced the participation with his exquisite renditions of Lalon songs.

The Bangladesh team presented a very well appreciated, hour long, bharatanatyam recital by Amit Chowdhury and his students from Kolpotoru, she said, the performances were aired, live, all over India by Doordarshan Bharati.

As part of the festival, Lubna Marium presented a paper on art titled ‘Beyond Boundaries: Reconnecting shared cross-border cultural practices’, through which she directed notice towards the need for cross-border inventories of same art forms practiced within neighboring regions of South Asia such as ‘lathikhela’; the performances of Manasa and the art of the bauls.

All in all, this seven-day exposition on the culture of Bangladesh will surely go a long way in enhancing a positive image of the nation, Lubna Marium hoped.