None
Jhankar celebrates golden jubilee
Artistes of Jhankar Lalitkala Academy present a dance recital on Monday at Music and Dance Centre of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy. — Snigdha Zaman

Jhankar Lalitkala Academy, one of the oldest dance organisations in the country, celebrated its golden jubilee through dance and discussion on Monday at Music and Dance Centre of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy.

The organisation also honoured six persons with Jhankar Lalitkala Academy Honourary Award and for their contributions to different sectors.

Munmun Ahmed and Saju Ahmed received the award for their contributions to dance, Shakil Khan for his contribution to social welfare, Riaz Ahmed Babu as successful entrepreneur, M Kamruzzaman and Dr Arif Hossain were honoured respectively for their contributions to education and health.

Joyjatra Foundation chairman Helena Jahangir was present at the programme as the chief guest, while Bangladesh Dance Artistes’ Association president Minu Haque and general secretary Mahfuzur Rahman were present as special guests.

Jhankar Lalitkala Academy principal Fatema Kashem handed over crests to the recipients.

‘Jhankar Lalitkala Academy has been training children and the young in different dance genres for the last 50 years. Presently we have around a thousand students who are learning from some of the best dance teachers in the country’, said Fatema Kashem.

Bangladesh Dance Artistes’ Association president Minu Haque said, ‘What can be happier news for us than to be present at the golden jubilee celebration of a dance organisation.’

Following the award-giving programme, child and young artistes of Jhankar entertained the audience presenting dance recitals of diverse genres.

Child artistes of the Academy commenced the dance show with a colourful recital synchronised with popular song Projapati Ei Mon.

Another group of child artistes followed with a recital synchronised with Bangshi Bajey, while young artistes of the academy performed with patriotic song Dhanadhanye Pushpabhara.

A duet dance by Fahima Akter and Sakib Salehin synchronised with Emon Jadi Hoto was another spectacular one.

The artistes also presented diverse recitals like tea-gardeners’ dance, folk dance, snake dance and others to captivate audience.