None
Tributes paid to Khalid Mahmud Mithu
Noted director-photographer-painter Khalid Mahmud Mithu was recalled at a programme at the Zainul Gallery of Dhaka University on Tuesday afternoon.

Arja Chalachchitra Foundation, a film organisation founded by Mithu, organised the commemorative programme marking Mithu’s first death anniversary.

Dhaka University faculty of fine art dean Nisar Hossain, artist Abul Baraq Alvi, art critique Mainuddin Khalid, friend of Mithu and also a photographer Abdul Malek Babu spoke at the programme. Widow of Mithu Kanak Chapa Chakma delivered a welcome speech at the programme.

In her speech, Kanak Chapa Chakma told that the family and also Arja Chalachchitra will organise a programe either on birth or death anniversary of Mithu.

Abdul Malek Babu told that Mithu had many identities like director, organiser and painter, but he was greatly passionate about photography.

‘There are many multitalented people in cultural area of the country but Mithu’s diversity was unique, ‘said Mainuddin Khalid.

‘Mithu was a man full with energy. It is unthinkable that he is no more,’ said Nisar Hossain.

An exhibition featuring paintings and photographs of Mithu was also inaugurated at the programme.

Mithu was born in 1960 and graduated from the faculty of fine art of Dhaka University in 1986. Subsequently, he started working as an artist and also an independent filmmaker. As an artist, Mithu is credited with 17 solo exhibitions at home and abroad. He won an award at the 17th National Art Biennale organised by Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy in 2007.

As a filmmaker, he made two feature films and several documentaries and teleplays. He debut film Gahiney Shabda (2010) received the national film award in four categories including the best director. His second film, Jonakir Alo (2013), was selected as the Bangladeshi entry for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 2014. The film also received the Best Film Award at the Delhi International Film Festival in 2014 as well as three international awards in Romania, United States and India.