None
Khalid Mahmud Mithu remembered on first death anniv
Visitors look at paintings by Khalid Mahmud Mithu on display at Zainul Gallery. — Snigdha Zaman

Noted director-photographer-painter Khalid Mahmud Mithu was remembered on his 1st death anniversary at a commemorative programme held at Dhaka University’s Zainul Gallery on Tuesday.

Arjo Chalochitro Foundation, a film organisation founded by Mithu, organised the programme which includes an exhibition featuring paintings and photographs by the late artist at the gallery.

Dhaka University’s fine arts department dean Nisar Hossain, noted artist Abul Baraq Alvi, art critic Mainuddin Khalid, friend of Mithu and also a photographer Abdul Malek Babu talked at the programme.

In her welcome speech Mithu’s widow artist Kanak Chapa Chakma said the family and Arjo Film Chalochitro will organise commemorative programmes every year either on birth anniversary or death anniversary of the late artist.

Abdul Malek Babu said though Mithu was a known director, organiser and painter; he was passionate about photography more.

‘There are many multitalented people in the cultural area of the country but Mithu’s diversity was unique,’ said Mainuddin Khalid.

‘Mithu was a man full of energy. It is unthinkable that he is no more,’ Nisar Hossain said at the programme.

A week-long exhibition featuring 28 paintings and 14 photographs of Mithu was inaugurated following the commemorative programme.

Mithu’s paintings are colourful and mostly done by acrylic on canvas. The semi-abstract paintings depict human life, ordinary day to day objects, musical instruments, fishes and birds and others.

A painting of him titled ‘Cat’s Dream’ is on display at the show. The painting shows an aquarium in which colourful fishes are swimming.

Music of Mystery is a painting which depicts a violin along with a female’s attire.

Mithu preferred to capture images in black and white rather than in colour when it came to photography. His photos displayed at the exhibition shows a grassy plateau where a large herd of cattle is grazing, farmers harvesting paddy, urban areas and more.