None
Dance has bright prospect in Bangladesh
Sharmila Banerjee

Dancer Sharmila Banerjee believes that both dance and dancers have bright future in Bangladesh as dancers these days have better opportunities for grooming and performances compared to their time.

Dancers these days can take the art form as their profession as many opportunities have been created in the past 10 years for them to perform on stage shows and conduct workshops, she said.

But, she said, it was not so easy in 1970s when she took dance as a profession.

A Visva Bharati University graduate in dance, Sharmila in an interview with New Age talked about her career, inspiration, current projects and others.

Sharmila said she started learning dance at the age of four and subsequently took training on diverse dance genres such as Manupuri, Oddissi, Bharatnatyam and Kathakali from renowned local and Indian dancers.

Born in a culturally-oriented family in Chittagong, she began learning dance at Chittagong Sangeet Parishad along with her sisters.

As her family moved to Kolkata during the liberation war of Bangladesh in 1971, she enrolled with Uday Shankar Indian Cultural Centre to take lesson in dance from legendary Indian dancer Amala Shankar.

‘I got the chance to take training for a year at the centre before returning to Chittaganong after the independence,’ she said.

While studying at Dhaka University, she took training on dance from eminent dancer Laila Hasan at Bulbul Academy of Fine Arts.

But, an amateur dancer Sharmila decided to take dance as her profession when she got a scholarship to study at Visva Bharati University in Santiniketan, India.

‘My days at the university made me what I am today. I studied Manipuri and Kathakali dance forms over there’, said Banerjee, whose passion for experimenting with dance forms also grew at that time.

‘At the university, I learnt how Rabindranath Tagore used to fuse diverse dance genres from across the world to create what we now know as Tagore dance. It insisted me to experiment with diverse classical and folk genres,’ she said.

Sharing her nature of experimentation, Sharmila said she fused Kathakali in her production of Tagore’s dance drama Shyama in 1983 and again experimented on ballet in her production of Ibsen’s The Lady from the Sea in 2009.

‘I hope to bring these two productions very soon on stage’, she said.

Sharmila, who teaches young dancers at Chhayanaut and at her own organisation Nrityanandan, said, ‘Young dancers are talented and some of them surprise us with their skills. But most of them are restless and lack in patience which are bad signs.’

Sharmila Banerjee has so far directed all nine dance dramas penned by Tagore and choreographed many other performances.

She has performed in countries like China, America, England, Canada, Japan, Norway, Sri Lanka and India.