None
Urban art draws on tradition
Motifs of folk art, which inspire many contemporary urban artists.

The contemporary art in Bangladesh is largely influenced by the age-old tradition of folk art and the legacy continued since the beginning of such experimentation initiated by pioneering artists like Zainul Abedin, Quamrul Hassan and others in the middle of the last century.

These pioneers and subsequently their disciples in many of their works incorporated motifs and themes practised by rural artisans, who create artworks with day-to-day used materials to narrate their own stories, tradition and customs, said artists and art historians.

The trend, they said, began since the establishment of the country’s first art training institute named Government Institute of Arts and Crafts, now faculty of fine arts of Dhaka University, in 1948 by Kolkata-trained modern artists like Zainul Abedin, Quamrul Hassan and others, who enriched their training on western art by incorporating the narratives of common people as found in works by rural artisans.

Being influenced by the folk art, both Zainul and Quamrul created many famous works such as Kesh Binyas, Abasare Teen Badhu, Ramanijugal, Teen Kanya, Dui Kanya, Pakhiwala and Ma O Chhele.

‘Their legacy of using folk motifs in modern art continues to the date by contemporary artists’, said eminent artist Farida Zaman, who wrote a book on the topic titled Adhunik Chitrakalay Lokoshilper Prabhab.

Motifs of folk art, which inspire many contemporary urban artists.

The influence of folk art on formally trained contemporary artists, she said, added a new dimension to today’s urban art.

Many urban artists are experimenting with folk motifs found in various folk arts like patachitra, shora painting, puthichitra, clay crafts, nakshi kantha, shital pati and others, she said.

Influence of folk art is visible everywhere, from contemporary art practices to urban households during Pahela Baishakh celebrations, especially in the attires of the people irrespective of cast and creed as well as in art products those are sold in fairs celebrating Bangla New Year.

Talking about the influence of folk art on his creative ventures, artist Matlub Ali said, ‘I’m influenced by the trend set by our seniors. I use folk motifs in many of my figurative paintings.’

But, he said, his use of materials and techniques are completely different from the folk artisans.

Traditionally, rural artisans create folk arts with day-to-day used materials keeping in view festivals, fairs and rituals such as Pahela Baishakh and Chaitra Shankranti.

They sell these products in fairs organised as part of such festivals while urban artists experiment on folk motifs in their works for displaying at art galleries.

With the handmade colours extracted from natural elements like leaves, fruits and seeds of different trees, said Dhaka University fine arts faculty dean artist Nisar Hossain, rural artisans paint earthen items or ordinary cloths for creating their unique artworks.

Such experimentation with traditional art by the urban artists, Nisar said, would continue as there was a kind of seriousness as regards preserving the tradition.