None
Month-long DITF-2017 begins today
Workers give finishing touch to the main entrance of Dhaka International Trade Fair-2017 while police stand guard at Sher-e-Bangla Nagar in Dhaka on Saturday. The 22nd edition of the month-long DITF -2017 begins today. — New Age photo

The 22nd edition of month-long Dhaka International Trade Fair-2017 begins today.

Prime minister Sheikh Hasina is expected to inaugurate the country’s largest trade show at Bangabandhu International Conference Centre in the capital at 10:00am.

In the inauguration ceremony of the DITF- 2017 the prime minister is expected to hand over National Export Trophy to 66 export companies for their outstanding performance in the country’s export earnings during the financial year 2013-14, commerce minister Tofail Ahmed told a press conference in Dhaka on Saturday.

‘I hope the DITF-2017 will be more attractive than the previous years and it would create more opportunity for participating countries to showcase their products for the vast number of visitors,’ commerce minister said at the press conference on the eve of the trade show on the fair premises at Sher-e-Bangla Nagar in the city.

Apart from Bangladesh, businesses from 20 countries including India, Pakistan, China, Malaysia, Iran, Thailand, the USA, Turkey, Singapore, Australia, the UK, South Korea, Japan and the UAE are taking part in the fair, Tofail said.

He expected that daily turnout of visitors to the fair would be more than one lakh.

There will be as many as 580 stalls including 110 pavilions, 76 mini pavilions, 85 premier stalls and 282 general stalls.

Entry fee has been set at Tk 30 per person for adult and Tk 20 for child and the show will remain open from 10:00am-10:00pm.

A vast range of products including machinery, carpet, cosmetics and beauty goods, electrical and electronic, jute and jute goods, leather and leather goods, footwear, sports goods, sanitary wears, plastic products, toys, stationary, watch, jewellery, ceramics, local apparel items, processed foods, first foods, furniture and handicrafts will be on display in the fair.

Of the 66 companies that are to get award from the prime minister, 29 have been selected for gold trophy, 22 for silver and 15 for bronze, the commerce minister said.

Commerce ministry senior secretary Hedayetullah Al Mamoon, Export Promotion Bureau vice-chairman Mafruha Sultana and other senior officials concerned were present at the press conference.