None
PM opens DITF-2017, declares leather as ‘product of the year’
Prime minister Sheikh Hasina is seen along with the recipients of National Export Trophy for 2013-14 at the inaugural function of the Dhaka International Trade Fair-2017 at the Bangabandhu International Conference Centre in Dhaka on Sunday. Commerce minister Tofail Ahmed, commerce ministry senior secretary Hedayet Ullah Al Mamun, Bangladesh Export Promotion Bureau vice-chairman Mafruha Sultana and Federation of Bangladesh Chambers and Commerce and Industry president Abdul Matlub Ahmed were present, among others. — New Age photo

Prime minister Sheikh Hasina on Sunday inaugurated the Dhaka International Trade Fair (DITF) announcing the ‘leather’ as the ‘product of the year’ for 2017, reports Bangladesh Sangbad Sangstha.

Asking all concerned to take necessary steps to provide necessary cooperation and incentives to the leather sector the prime minister said, the government wants to boost up the rising leather sector to explore its all potentials.

Leather export has been increased by about 71 times over the last four decades and Bangladesh produces leather goods for top global brands, she said.

Urging the business persons and exporters to remain careful about the changing global trade regime she said WTO rules are making the global trade more liberal.

‘So, Bangladeshi products should maintain global standard to sustain in the world market,’ she said.

‘Exporters should not to run after few countries for GSP facilities. Better you should find market in another place and then they will try to get you,’ she suggested.

Hasina also distributed the National Export Trophy-2013-2014 at the inaugural function of the DITF-2017 held at Bangabandhu International Conference Centre.

Ministry of Commerce and Bangladesh Export Promotion Bureau (BEPB) are jointly been organising this fair for the 22 consecutive years.

Commerce minister Tofail Ahmed, parliamentary standing committee chairman on ministry of Commerce and chief whip of the opposition in Parliament Tajul Islam Chowdhury attended the function as special guests.

Commerce ministry senior secretary Hedayet Ullah Al Mamun, Federation of Bangladesh Chambers and Commerce and Industry (FBCCI) president Abdul Matlub Ahmed spoke, among others, on the occasion while EPB vice chairman of Mafruha Sultana gave welcome address.

Cabinet members, senior government officials, diplomats, business leaders and exporters and participant from home and abroad were present.

The PM distributed 29 gold, 22 silver and 15 bronze medals among the exporters for their success in export during the year 2013-2014.

Twenty-nine gold trophy winning companies are Zaber and Zobaer Fabrics, KM Knitwear Ltd, GMS Composite Knitting Industry Ltd, Kamal Yarns Ltd, Paramount Textile Ltd, Noman Teri Towel Ltd, Apex Foods Ltd, Popular Jute Exchange Ltd, Akij Jute Mills Ltd, Apex Tannery, Picard Bangladesh Ltd, FB Footwear Ltd, Mansur General Trading Company, Pran Agro Ltd, Rajdhani Enterprise, Karupanna Rangpur, Bengal Plastic, Far Ceramics, BRB Cables, Marine Safety System, Square Pharmaceuticals, Service Engine Ltd, Universal Jeans, Shasha Denims, Montrims Ltd, Gazi Enterprise, Mir Telecom and RR trade Syndicate.

Twenty-two silver trophy winners are Apparel Gallery, Square Fashions, Badsha Textile, Envoy Textile, Unilience textile, Hossain Dying and Printing, Seamark Ltd, Janata Jute Mills, SAF Industries, RMM Leather, Bay Footwear, Agri Concern,

City Sugar, Capital Enterprise, BD Creation, Bengal Plastic, Pratik Ceramics, BSRM Steels, Incepta Pharmaceuticals, Jeans-2000, Uniglory Papers and Farm Fresh.

Fifteen bronze winning enterprises are Interfab Shirt Manufacturing Ltd, Fakir Knitwear, Mosharof Composite, Noman Weaving Mills, Jalalabad Frozen Foods, Karim Jute Spinners, Akij Footwear, Heritage Enterprise, Pran Foods, Helal and Brothers, Durable Plastics, Monnu Ceramics, MI Cement, Beximco Pharma and Pacific Jeans.

Hasina said her government has attached utmost importance to private sector to promote trade and investment in the country.

‘Private sector has emerged as the main driving force of the country’s economy. But this sector has a big responsibility for expediting the pace of development,’ she added.

Private sector has to work for development of the people of the country taking the opportunities provided by the government, the PM said.

Emphasizing on enhancement of purchase capacity of people the prime minister said, ‘Export should not be the sole ambition of industries. Local market must be created for their goods,’.

Hasina said her government has created immense scope for private sector to explore their business opportunities in eight neighboring countries.

Steps have been taken for establishing communications among Bangladesh, Bhutan, India and Nepal while BCIM corridor in on the card to link Bangladesh, China, India and Myanmar to expand their trade and businesses, the prime minister informed.

Sheikh Hasina urged the FBCCI to open a cell to find out demands of the people in different countries, global quality specification and help the local industries to produce goods accordingly.

Later, the prime minister went round different stalls of the fair.