None
Mosquito menace increases
Mosquito menace increased sharply in the capital in last five weeks causing untold sufferings to residents.

People throughout the capital complained that they found both the city corporations totally indifferent to address the serious issues.

Neither the Dhaka South City Corporation nor the Dhaka North City Corporation attached any importance to free the capital from mosquitoes.

People’s sufferings became unbearable, Dhaka College student Mehedi Hasan Sabuj told New Age.

Sabuj, who is bed ridden with dengue at his residence on Tajmahal Road, Moahammadpur, for the past week

said many of his neighours were suffering from fever due to mosquito bite.

DSCC and DNCC officials admitted that the mosquito menace had become acute as it always does in the winter.

DSCC zonal officials said they could not launch mosquito eradication drives in December as low quality chemicals were returned to the suppliers.

DNCC officials said that they could not carry out their mosquito eradication drives due to shortage of manpower and spraying machines.

They said that the DNCC also could not clean up the lakes, water bodies and marshes under it due to manpower shortage.

They said that the lakes and water bodies in Dhaka North City cover 22,000 bighas.

Riazul Islam, who resides at Dhalpur, Jatrabari, said that people in his neighbourhood were passing sleepless nights due to mosquito bites.

He said that mosquitoes became resistant to repellents.

University teacher Atikul Islam Bipul said at Malibagh, where he lives, people find it impossible to stay home without burning mosquito coils or spraying repellents.

He said that mosquito menace increased manifold in recent weeks.

His views were echoed by people living throughout the capital.

The worst sufferers live at Jatrabari, Pallabi, Sayedabad, Mirpur, Kazipara, Shyamoli, Banani, Gulshan, Mohakhali, Mohammadpur, Niketon, Uttara, West Rampura, Gendaria, Moghbazar, Panthapath, Dhanmondi, Jigatola, Hazaribagh, Lalbagh and Kamrangirchar, said residents.

They said they find none to lodge their complaints.

DSCC and DNCC officials said as the complaints piled up they took plans to launch massive mosquito eradication drives from the next week.

DSCC chief health officer brigadier general Sheikh Salahuddin told New Age that now there was

o shortage of manpower, spraying machines and chemicals to be used for mosquito eradication.

‘We will launch the special crash drive on Sunday or Monday,’ he said.

DNCC chief health officer brigadier general S M M Saleh Bhuiyan said that the weather from November to March facilitates mosquito breeding.

‘Recently, we cleaned up Dhaka north City’s 22,000 bighas of wetlanding, he said.

On Sunday, he said, DNCC would start its massive mosquito control drive.

In 2016, according to National Health Crisis Management Centre and Control Room, 14 people were killed by dengue while 6,000 others suffered dengue infection, the highest for a single year in Bangladesh since 2002.

In 2015, six died of dengue while 3,162 others suffered from the mosquito borne disease.