None
Mosquitoes menace life as city authorities lack action
MOSQUITO menace continues to dog people’s lives, as it did in the past years, in Dhaka in the peak breeding season spanning from November to March. An abject failure of Dhaka’s city corporations, the south and the north, in mosquito control stemming from the lack of accountability in the governance of the local government institutions, has further compounded the situation. Most of the residents of the city, as New Age reported on Wednesday, had complaints that both the city corporations were indifferent towards resolving the issue of mosquito menace. With mosquitoes hampering public life, many children busy preparing for the examinations are facing serious trouble in such a situation. Overall, the mosquito menace has aggravated the sufferings of city dwellers already dogged by various other problems.

City officials have not as yet conducted any mosquito control drive, which includes the elimination of the breeding grounds of mosquitoes such as the removal of hyacinth from the water bodies in the areas under their jurisdiction. There are many areas in the capital city where corporation officials are reported not to have sprayed adulticide for years, something which should have been a routine job for them. The corporation officials have, as reported, admitted that complaints in this regard piled up and they have had plans to launch massive mosquito eradication drives from the next week. But this has already been three months into the mosquito breeding season. The delay in planning on mosquito control operations by city corporations is largely attributable to the indifference of local government institutions to public interest and public health.

There are many species of mosquitoes that spread diseases such as malaria and dengue which sometimes cause fatality to people. In other words, being indifferent to the mosquito menace may sometimes prove to be dalliance with danger. Allegations are rife that with complicity of a section of city corporation officials, the traders tasked to do the job usually supply adulterated pesticides to the corporations, resulting in the failure of the anti-mosquito drives, if any at all, every year. As is evident, today’s elected representatives of the two city corporations can hardly make any difference unless there are efforts to streamline the officials there. The incumbents are expected to rise to the occasion. While the government needs to make the city corporations redouble their efforts in mosquito control, the solution lies with the sincerity of the elected representatives in these institutions, which will demand their accountability to the people and, thus, ensure responsiveness to public interest.

More about: