None
City authorities must contain mosquito menace
WITH its peak breeding season, from November to March, mosquito menace has begun to haunt the people living in the capital Dhaka and elsewhere in the country. What needs to be pointed out is that the responsibility to control this menace, especially in Dhaka city, devolves upon the two city corporations — Dhaka North City Corporation and Dhaka South City Corporation. Overall, the utter failure of the two city corporations to keep the mosquito menace under control could be attributed to the lack of accountability in the governance of these local government institutions. As New Age reported on Friday, quoting people from different areas under both the city corporations in the capital, they are being forced to use mosquito nets along with mosquito coils, electric repellents and aerosols not only at night but even during the day to save them from the menace. Most of the people in the capital have been complaining for long that both the city corporations are found indifferent to addressing this serious issue. With mosquitoes hampering public life, many children busy preparing their lessons are facing serious trouble in such a situation. Overall, the mosquito menace has aggravated the sufferings of the city dwellers already dogged by various other problems.

It is important to note that there are many areas in the city where the corporation officials have allegedly not been spraying adulticide using fogger machines over the years, something that should have been a regular practice. Only, they are in the habit of admitting that complaints in this regard have piled up but mostly they fail to launch massive mosquito eradication drives effectively. What needs to be pointed out in this connection is that the evident lack of planning, implementation and monitoring with regard to mosquito control operations by the city corporations is largely attributable to the indifference of these local government institutions to public interest and public health in particular. There are many species of mosquitoes that spread different diseases such as malaria and dengue which sometimes cause fatality to the people affected. In other words, being indifferent to the mosquito menace may sometimes prove to be dalliance with danger. Allegations are rife that, with complicity of a corrupt section of city officials, the traders tasked to do the job usually supply substandard adulterated pesticides to the corporations resulting in the failure of the anti-mosquito drives, if any at all, every year.

As is evident, today’s elected representatives of the two city corporations can hardly make any difference unless there is a successful drive to streamline the officials there. The incumbents need to rise to the occasion. While the government needs to make the city corporations redouble their efforts in mosquito control, the solution lies with the sincerity of the elected representatives in these institutions. Conscious sections and democratically-oriented people need to raise sustained voice to pressure the city corporations to act expeditiously

in this regard.

More about: