None
Non-communicable diseases account for 60 pc mortality in Bangladesh
Dhaka Reporters’ Unity organises a workshop on non-communicable disease and sustainable development goals at its auditorium in Dhaka on Tuesday. — New Age photo

Non-communicable diseases account for around 60 per cent of mortality in Bangladesh as a large number of people are suffering from hypertension, lung diseases, cancer and diabetes, health experts said.

At a workshop at Dhaka Reporters Unity on Tuesday, they stressed the need for attention to the NCD as the country is more focused on communicable diseases, where Bangladesh achieved a significant success in recent years.

DRU organised the workshop for the journalists who work in health sector. Danish multinational pharmaceutical company Novo Nordisk sponsored the function, where state minister for health Zahid Malik, director general of Drug Administration major general

Mustafizur Rahman, Directorate General for Health Services line director for non-communicable disease Faruk Ahmed Bhuyan, and Diabetic Association of Bangladesh president AK Azad Khan, among others, spoke.

Zahid Malik said non-communicable diseases are now replacing communicable diseases in Bangladesh as diseases like stroke, kidney diseases, diabetes and cancer are taking more lives each year in Bangladesh.

He said the government was now putting stress on NCD and increasing medical facilities in the specialised hospitals and institutes, which deal with the NCDs.

DGHS line director for NCD, Faruk Ahmed Bhuyan said NCDs accounted for around 59 per cent of mortality in Bangladesh now.

He said among deaths in the NCDs, around 71 per cent die of hypertension, 7 per cent of respiratory diseases and 10 per cent for cancer and 3 to 6 per cent for diabetes.

‘NCDs were neglected in the past years, but we are now focusing on NCDs’, he said.

Novo Nordisk head of marketing Mohammad Saiful said controlling NCDs was the key for achieving Sustainable Development Goals.

He said diabetes and other NCDs are serious health and economic issue in Bangladesh as around 8.86 lakh people died in NCDs in Bangladesh in 2014 while the country had 71 lakh people suffering from diabetes.

AK Azad Khan urged the government for initiating a national policy against diabetes as he said the diabetes, which is responsible for most of the cases of NCDs, could be tackled with raising awareness.