None
Obesity increases risk of kidney diseases : roundtable
Kidney Awareness Monitoring and Prevention Society organises a roundtable discussion kidney diseases at National Press Club in Dhaka on Friday. — New Age photo

Experts on Friday underscored the need for healthy lifestyle, as one in four people of the country are obese, a key reason for kidney diseases.

At a roundtable discussion on ‘Obesity increases risk of kidney diseases : Healthy lifestyle for healthy kidney’, they said around two crore people of Bangladesh are suffering from some form of kidney disease, but around 60 per cent of the deadly diseases could be prevented through healthy lifestyle.

Kidney Awareness Monitoring and Prevention Society organised the discussion at National Press Club.

LABAID Specialised Hospital kidney disease department head and KAMPS president MA Samad, Bangladesh Kidney Foundation president Harun-Ur-Rashid, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University nephrology professor Ranjit Roy, Bangladesh Renal Association general secretary Muhibur Rahman, and non-communicable diseases programme manager of Directorate General of Health Services Tanvir Ahmed, among others, took part in discussions.

Presenting a keynote paper, Samad said around one-fourth of the country’s population are obese and the number has increased by 111 per cent since 1990.

He said only 10 per cent of the kidney patients in Bangladesh can take treatment, but 60 per cent of the kidney diseases could be prevented by the healthy lifestyle.

Samad said obesity at one point damages the function of kidney directly while it is responsible for diabetes and high-blood pressure, which are also responsible for kidney damages.

‘So we have to be more aware not to gain weight, not to take unhealthy food, and about lack of physical activities’, he said.

Rashid said about 85 per cent kidney patients did not have monetary capacity to bear the expenses of dialysis.

He said the country’s kidney patients cannot transplant kidney due to non-unavailability of donors, but deceased kidney transplant could change the scenario.

He said around 80 per cent kidney patients abroad take deceased persons’ kidney for transplant, but Bangladesh still has no such social motivation to donate posthumous kidney.

Harun advised the patients to test their creatinine level before taking anti-biotic and painkillers as those damage kidney badly if the patient has high-level of creatinine.

He said arsenic, lead, mercury, cadmium damage kidney while fruits, vegetables and rice often are contaminated by heavy metal elements.

Sharing his experience, Ranjit Roy said the university hospital has a large dialysis centre but most of the patients who came to take dialysis could not continue due to high cost of dialysis.

The government should make dialysis facilities available across the country and subsidise the dialysis treatment.

Muhibur Rahman advised people to avoid deep-oil-fried foods to avoid gaining fat, which ultimately make people obese. Obesity increases the risk of kidney diseases, he said.

Tanvir Ahmed said the non-communicable diseases (NCD) accounted for 60 per cent of deaths in Bangladesh.

Kidney disease turns to be a key factor among the NCD in Bangladesh, he said.

Tanvir said the government was keen to focus on NCD, a large portion of which could be prevented by awareness.

The government has plans to make people aware so that they lead healthy lifestyle as focusing on healthy lifestyle eventually save money and life, Tanvir said.