None
Deadly indifference to kidney disease
IT IS alarming that about two crore people suffer from different kidney diseases in Bangladesh. According to a New Age report published on Saturday, experts at a roundtable organised by Kidney Awareness Monitoring and Prevention Society in the capital said that, kidney disease is one of the non-communicable diseases that mostly account for 60 per cent of total annual mortality in the country. Moreover, only 10 per cent of the kidney patients have access to the costly treatment. In addition, patients here cannot transplant kidney because of non-availability of donors, a problem that can be attributable to some legal complications and lack of social motivation to donate posthumous kidney. It is important to note that about 80 per cent kidney patients abroad take deceased persons’ kidney for transplant but Bangladesh still has no such provision. According to the experts, about 60 per cent of the deadly kidney diseases can be prevented through healthy lifestyle as one-fourth of the country’s population are obese, a key reason for kidney diseases. Regrettably, however, there is still no serious awareness campaign either from the government or from non-government organisations working on public health.

This is, perhaps, why, according to the keynote paper presented in the discussion, the number of obese people in the country has increased by 111 per cent since 1990. It is pertinent to mention here that the figure is likely to become higher in the days to come as people are increasingly exposed to unhealthy lifestyle for different reasons, including the aggressive marketing policies of junk food traders. Obesity at one point damages the function of kidney directly while it is responsible for diabetes and high-blood pressure, which are also responsible for kidney damages. Meanwhile, heavy metals such as arsenic, lead, mercury, cadmium etc also contribute to kidney damage, while fruits, vegetables and rice often are contaminated. Additionally, the government has recently taken initiatives, albeit insufficient, to stop poisonous chemical, including formalin, treatment of food items, it is yet to wake up to the problem of heavy metal contamination of food. Nor is there any effective step from the government to ensure proper use of antibiotic and painkillers that are also responsible for damaging kidney, especially of those already having high-level of creatinine.

It is, in fact, the general apathy of the incumbents like their predecessors to public health, which is essentially responsible for such an unfortunate situation. But the government needs to realise that it is constitutionally bound to safeguard public health and ensure easy access for all citizens to both preventive and curative measures for all diseases, including the deadly non-communicable ones such as kidney disease. As its part, it should launch a massive and sustained awareness programme on how to prevent kidney and other non-communicable diseases, apart from making affordable treatment facilities for the diseases available across the country. Also, conscious sections of society, particularly health rights bodies, need to engage in a sustained campaign about the issue.

More about: