None
Technology not panacea to all diseases: Matia
Agriculture minister Matia Chowdhury on Thursday said that the technology used in genetically modified Bt brinjal is not a panacea for all diseases of the crop, rather it could prevent brinjal shoot and fruit borer only.

‘The other sucking insects like white fly and diseases like bacterial wilt need to be managed in Bt brinjal fields, she said.

The minister made the remarks at the inaugural session of a workshop on ‘Bt Eggplant Research and Development’ organised by Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute and Feed the Future South Asia Eggplant Improvement Project of USAID at Radisson Blu Dhaka Water Garden.

Matia said that Bangladesh being a densely populated country with limited lands but vulnerable to climate change due to geographical location, biotech applications to agriculture might boost food production for the increasing population.

‘Our government is ready to accept any advanced technology keeping in mind the safety of the people. We will be guided by the science based information, not by non-scientific whispering of a section of people,’ she said.

The minster urged scientists to work silently with dedication on biotechnology without much propaganda and self-benefit.

She said that Bt brinjal was introduced in 2014 in the fields of 20 farmers and the genetically modified crop was now being grown by at least 5,500 farmers. They were growing bt brinjal in their fields with the help of the agricultural research institution and the Department of Agricultural Extension, she added.

Presided over by agriculture secretary (current charge) Mohammad Nazmul Islam, the workshop was also addressed by Department Agricultural Extension director general Manjurul Hannan, Cornell University project director Anthony M Shelton and USAID director Matt Curtis.

Earlier, experts in the technical session, chaired by former agriculture secretary Anwar Faroque, claimed that Bt brinjal cultivation was going in good progress in Bangladesh.

They, however, said that small farmers were supplying their Bt brinjal to the local markets without labelling on the crop, so the consumers could not be able to differentiate the Bt brinjal and other brinjals.

More about: