None
Reefat eyes chess return
Grand Master Reefat Bin-Sattar is all set to return to the competitive chess after a long two-year gap.

Reefat, the third GM of the country, brought a pause in his long career in February 2015 when he left the country for Cambodia as the Asian Regional Advisor of Save the Children, an international non-governmental organization that promotes children’s rights.

After finishing his contract with the NGO, Reefat returned home in August this year and now look forward to take part in the upcoming Premier League Chess, scheduled to start on December 5.

‘After a long two-year gap now I have some extra time for chess,’ Reefat told New Age over phone on Friday.

‘Now I am thinking to resume my career. If I get a club I will take part in the Premier League Chess,’ he said.

Reefat said though he returned home three months ago, he took his time to return to the board as he was out of practice and could not manage leave from his new job.

As a result he skipped the recent national championship, won by fellow GM Enamul Hossain Rajib.

Reefat, who won national champions title six times including three times in a row from 1991 to 1993, said he is in discussion with Sheikh Russell Memorial Chess Club though nothing is confirmed yet.

Reefat last played in the Premier League Chess in 2014 for Bangladesh Navy team while he played National Championship last time in 2013.

He last represented Bangladesh in the 2012 Chess Olympiad in Istanbul, Turkey where Bangladesh produced best ever result in history finishing 33rd among 150 countries.

Reefat, who was declared as GM in 2006, missed the next two Chess Olympiads in 2014 and 2016.

Reefat said during his time in Cambodia his practice limited in playing game online.

‘Due to the professional reason I had to leave the country for a while so it was difficult for me to continue my career,’ he said.

‘Though I didn’t take part in any competitive event in this period I played the game with different opponents across the world through online regularly.’

More about: