None
Zia meets son in chess league
Tahsin Tajwar Zia (R), son of Grand Master Ziaur Rahman, ponders a move against his father during their Premier Division Chess League match on Wednesday. — New Age photo

For Grand Master Ziaur Rahman it was not like just any other match.

On the other side of the board Zia met none other than his 11-year old son Tahsin Tajwar Zia as the duo met for the first time in a competitive match in the Premier Division Chess League on Wednesday.

Zia, who was playing for the Sheikh Russell Memorial Chess Club in the league, met Golden Sporting Club’s Tahsin in Board-2 in this rare father-son battle that lasted nearly four-and-half hour long match.

Though Tahsin lost the game, he offered his Grand Master father a great challenge which was evident in the duration of the game.

‘I never thought that he would offer me such a challenge. Once he was even in a winning position though luckily I could overcome it,’ said Zia, who had introduced 64-square alternate colour board to Tahsin in his childhood.

Zia, the second GM of the country, said he did not take his son lightly and played the game like any other professional.

‘During the game I just represented my team and only thought about earning full points,’ said Zia.

‘I never thought about whoever my opponent was, because it was a team game and we needed to win the match.

‘It was a coincidence that we got the same board.

‘Before the game started the club decided that I would play in the board number two.

‘When the final fixture was revealed just before the match I found Tahsin was my opponent and honestly speaking from that moment I started feeling pressure.’

Tahsin, who is the top ranked player in the Under-12 age ranking in Bangladesh, said he felt no pressure playing against Zia.

‘I learnt the chess lesson from baba [Zia] when I was only six,’ Tahsin said.

‘We always practice together which is why I did not feel nervous.

‘The match was a competitive one and I had the great chance to win it but unfortunately I lost my mind in the last moment.’

Tahsin, a grade-three student of Saint Judes International School, said he played lot of beginner’s competitions when they had been leaving in Malaysia since 2010.

He became third in the Sub-Junior Competition this year which gave him some extra-confidence in his debut season in the top tier league.

Tahsin said he wants to become the best chess player of the country.

‘I want to put baba behind to reach my ultimate goal of becoming the world champion,’ Tahsin said.

Meanwhile, his mother Tasmin Sultana, who was one of the witnesses of the game among other spectators, blamed Zia for not giving any concession to his son.

‘Zia seemed very serious during the game and he showed no fondness to my son,’ said a laughing Tasmin.

‘During the game Tajikistan’s Super GM Amonatov Farrukh came to me and said Tahsin has a great future and if he gets proper care he can become GM within two or three years.

‘I also believe that if he gets sponsor to compete in many international tournaments then he would overtake his father,’ she said.

Tasmin said her son is also an introvert person like his father and mostly spends his leisurely hour in chess board.

‘He is just like his father said,’ said Tasmin. ‘He has little interest to play outdoor games like cricket and football. His only passion is chess.’