None
Fahad begins quest for IM norm
Fahad Rahman

Country’s youngest Fide Master Fahad Rahman said on Saturday that he will play four tournaments in India in December and January with a hope to earn required norms that will make him an International Master.

The 13-year-old prodigy will play three Grand Master tournaments and one Junior Tournament as he is bidding to become country’s youngest IM.

His month-long sojourn in India tour will start with two tournaments in Mumbai – IIFL Wealth Mumbai International and IIFL Wealth Mumbai Junior tournaments– which will be held simultaneously from December 26 to January 3.

Fahad finished as runners-up in the IIFL junior tournament last year and decided to take part in the International tournament this year because it will be considered as a GM tournament.

After these two tournaments, Fahad will visit New Delhi to take part in the 15th Delhi International Open, scheduled from January 9-16.

Fahad will end his Indian tour with the 9th Chennai Open Grand Master Chess Tournament, which will be held from January 18 to 25.

Fahad got some remarkable success in 2015 when he won Dubai Open Chess Tournament in July and also retained domestic Junior and Sub-Junior titles.

Fahad said he took some confidence from recent successes which were preceded by a month-long training under Grand Master Enamul Hossain Rajib.

‘I’m ready to put my best effort in the Indian tour,’ Fahad told New Age on Saturday.

‘I’m preparing under Rajib uncle which should help me to do better in the upcoming tournaments.’

Fahad, whose current rating point is 2279, also helped the Access Chess Club win the First Division Chess League earlier this month.

Fahad’s father Nazrul Islam said he is trying to arrange a month-long training course for his son under India’s legendary Grand Master Ramesh RB, who usually remains busy training the youth players around the world.

One major concern for Fahad’s father said is the high coaching fees of Ramesh, who is also the practice partner of former World number one chess player Viswanathan Anand.

‘We are trying to manage a sponsor for Fahad because his previous contract with Mahindra had expired in September this year,’ said Fahad’s father.

‘Federation [Bangladesh Chess Federation] also promised to provide some financial support to Fahad for his India tour.’

Fahad needs to perform well against some upper-ranked players to get the IM norm and experts believe the youngster has the talent to achieve that.

‘To win an IM norm, Fahad has to perform well against some upper-ranked players,’ according to Harunur Rashid, the Bangladesh’s international arbiter.