None
Siddik nearly flawless in Chittagong Open
Ace Bangladeshi golfer Siddikur Rahman finished the first day of Chittagong Open, the first ever international tournament at Bhatiary Golf and Country Club in Chittagong, at the third place with three-under-par 69.

Siddik was trailing two Indians Honey Baisoya and Samarth Dwivedi, the joint first round leaders, by just one point at the picturesque golf course established in a hilly area near country’s second largest city.

Honey, fifth-ranked player of Professional Golf Tour of India, scored eight birdies but also struck four bogeys while Samarth scored six birdies with two bogeys.

Although Siddik scored just four birdies he put up almost a flawless display in the remaining holes for just one bogey that kept him firmly in contention.

Siddik was sharing the third position with Sri Lankan Anura Rohana and five Indians Anil Bajrang Mane, Harendra Gupta, Naman Dawar, Shankar Das and PGTI Order of Merit leader Shamim Khan.

Siddik was happy with his performance and he was confident to clinch the trophy.

‘I am really happy with my performance on the opening day,’ said the two-time Asian Tour winner after the end of day’s play.

‘Actually the condition was bit windy which sometimes becomes difficult for the golfers to cope but I really enjoyed my game.

‘I played in this course after a long gap and it’s really nice. Playing four birdies against a single bogey on that course was not bad I think.

‘I am just one shot behind the top golfers and still long way to go. So I’m very much confident to win the race,’ he added.

Samarth, playing only his second season as a professional, got off to a disastrous start with bogeys on the first two holes but the 24-year-old from Allahabad regained his confidence with a 10-feet birdie conversion on the seventh.

‘I’ve not had the ideal start to the season having missed the cut in three out of four events so far. But I feel I’m now driving better with my new driver which I began using last week.’

Bangladesh’s Mohammad Ripon struck an eagle in the 10th hole to keep himself on the 10th position with two other Indians with two-under-par 70, just one short of Siddik .

But another prominent Bangladeshi golfer Jamal Hossain Mollah had a bad day as he finished with five-over-par 77 to be placed in 65th spot though 18 other local players, who all are now in danger of missing the cut.

The tournament is the second Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI) sanctioned tournament in Bangladesh this year after the BTI Open, held in Dhaka earlier this month.

Winner of that event, Udayan Mane finished on 41st with two-over par 74.

More about: