None
Sensational Siddik seizes control
Bangladesh golfer Siddikur Rahman hits a shot during the second round of the Chittagong Open at the Bhatiary Golf & Country Club on Thursday. — PGTI photo

Premier Bangladeshi golfer Siiddikur Rahman delighted the home crowd with a blistering six-under-par 66 to finish the second round of inaugural Chittagong Open as runaway leader in Bhatiary on Thursday.

Siddik’s brilliant effort at the Bhatiary Golf & Country Club helped him build a substantial lead of six shots at the halfway stage with a total of nine-under-par 135.

Indian golfers Shamim Khan (72), Sanjeev Kumar (71), Khalin Joshi (70) and Harendra Gupta (72) were bunched together in tied second at three-under-par 141 along with Sri Lankan Anura Rohana (72).

Siddik (69-66), who was tied third overnight, one off the lead, came into his own on the second day thanks to a fabulous all-round effort.

With three straight birdies on the fifth, sixth and seventh followed by three more on the 10th, 11th and 13th, he raced to six-under for the day through the first 13 holes.

The bogey on the 15th was his only blemish but he finally ended with another birdie on the 18th to stamp his authority on the second round.

Siddik was delighted with his performance on the second round and said that the port city course was one of his favourites.

‘I’m really enjoying playing here in Chittagong. The Bhatiary Golf & Country Club has a challenging layout and is one of my favourite courses,’ said Siddik.

‘I had a decent start in round one but really got my game going today [Thursday]. I struck it well and also took my chances on the greens.

‘I have a healthy lead at the moment but won’t take anything for granted as there is a lot of golf still to be played in this tournament.

‘I would love to do well here in front of my home crowd this week,’ added the two-time Asian Tour winner, who missed the other PGTI event of the country, the BTI Open, for injury.

Jakiruzzaman Jakir (70) was the next best Bangladeshi golfer after Siddik in the seventh place with two-under-par 142.

Round one joint leaders Samarth Dwivedi and Honey Baisoya of India, slipped to tied eighth at one-under-par 143 after both shot scores of 75 in round two.

Bangladeshi amateur Md Nobi Hossain made a hole-in-one on the 17th during his second round effort of 78.

However, he missed the cut as his total score was 19-over-par 163.

The cut was declared at eight-over-par 152. Fifty-three professionals made the cut including 33 Indians, 17 Bangladeshis and three Sri Lankans.