None
Siddik continues title charge
Bangladesh golfer Siddikur Rahman plays a shot during the third round of the Chittagong Open at the Bhatiary Golf and Country Club on Friday. — PGTI photo

Ace golfer Siddikur Rahman continued his brilliant display and dominance in the inaugural Chittagong Open closing in on title with a commendable lead in Bhatiary on Friday.

Siddik made a fiery 5-under-par 67 in the third round of the event to take his tally to 14-under-202 and extend his lead from six to seven shots at scenic Bhatiary Golf and Country Club.

Siddik, who made a sizzling six-under par 66 on second day, started the day poorly with a bogey but the two-time Asian Tour winner came back with a bang as he made a birdie in the very next hole.

He made an astonishing tee shot on the par-3 second where he landed it within a foot and needed just a tap in the second shot to put the ball in the hole and ensure his first birdie of the day.

He continued his rich vein of form to pick up seven more birdies and entertained the spectators with some elegant chipping.

He chipped-in on the sixth and made up and down from the bunker on the fifth and eighth for his three birdies on the front nine.

Sri Lankan Anura Rohana (68) occupied second place at seven-under-209 while the Indian trio of Khalin Joshi (69), Sanjeev Kumar (69) and Shamim Khan (69) were in joint third place at six-under-210.

Siddik expressed his satisfaction after the end of day’s play.

‘I was really pleased with my ball-striking and chipping today,’ said Siddik.

‘I’ve made three chip-in birdies so far this week including two in the third round. I also made some top-class chip-putts today. However, the highlight of my round was the tee shot on the second that stopped just a foot from the pin,’ he added.

Despite showcasing some brilliant performance Siddik, who produced the best performance in the day by making 66 in the second round, said the course was not easy and did not help even the locals.

‘The BGCC course is playing tough due to the windy conditions and I don’t feel that I have the advantage of local knowledge here since I’m playing at this magnificent venue after almost 16 years. ‘

He added that he will not be thinking too far in the final day and will just focus on the routine.

‘The aim in the final round will be to play according to the situation by not getting too ahead of myself. I’ll follow my usual routine and not think too much about the scores.’

Siddik also made the best score on the day with 67 while another local player Jamal Hossain Mollah had a good day as he made 69 to end on the 10th position with a total of one-over-par 217.

Jamal, who made a dismal start with six-over-par in the opening day, was trailing behind seven Indians, who were occupying the places from two to nine.