None
Sublime Siddik clinches Ctg Open
Bangladesh’s Siddikur Rahman (3rd-R) receives the trophy from Major General Md Jahangir Kabir Talukder after winning the inaugural Chittagong Open at the Bhatiary Golf & Country Club in Chittagong on Saturday. — PGTI photo

Siddikur Rahman lived up to the expectations to lift the inaugural Chittagong Open golf tournament when he fired two-under-par 70 in the fourth and final round at the Bhatiary Golf & Country Club course on Saturday.

Siddik, who finished the Tk 60-lakh prize money competition with a remarkable 16-under-par 272, has now bagged his sixth PGTI title to go with his two Asian tour titles.

It was also his first win on the tour since his triumph in Dhaka exactly one year back in BTI Open golf.

India’s Sanjeev Kumar finished as runners-up with 10-under-par 278 after his impressive final round of four-under-par 68, which was also career-best finish for the Lucknow golfer.

Siddik (69-66-67-70), the overnight leader by seven strokes, drove home the advantage on the final day with considerable ease as none of the other golfers posed any threat to his lead.

The 32-year-old golfer was three-under through 11 holes on Saturday after chipping-in for birdies on the fifth and also setting up tap-in birdies on the 10th and 11th holes with a couple of top-class chip shots.

The Bangladeshi golfing icon made another chip-in on the 16th hole,

his second of the round and fifth of the week, to cruise home despite hitting bogeys on the 12th and 17th holes.

Siddik believed that the improved chip shots were the main reason behind his success in this tournament and also thanked the local crowds for turning up to cheer him on the final day.

‘My chipping was the best aspect of my game this week. I made five chip-ins through the tournament. I didn’t leave myself too many long putts, especially on the last day’, he said.

‘I felt I kept up the intensity through the final round and was therefore in total control.

‘I was really excited and pumped up due to the massive crowd that came out to cheer for me today [Saturday].

‘It feels really nice to win another tournament in my home country Bangladesh. This will give me loads of confidence for the rest of the Asian Tour season.’

Md Zamal Hossain Mollah (even-par-288) and Md Jakiruzzaman Jakir (one-over-289) were the other two Bangladeshis in the top-10 as they finished ninth and tied 10th respectively.

Sanjeev Kumar (70-71-69-68) climbed from his overnight tied third to second place courtesy to his 68 in fourth round.

Sanjeev, who struck six birdies and two bogeys on Saturday, finished the event as the highest-placed Indian golfer.

Delhi’s Shamim Khan (70) finished third at eight-under-par 280. He continues to lead the PGTI Order of Merit.