None
Nayeem chosen as Number 1 Spinner
Nayeem Islam (L), the winner of the ‘Robi Khoj: The Number 1 Spinner’, receives his trophy and certificate from Bangladesh Cricket Board director Jalal Yunus (R) at the Sher-e-Bangla National Stadium on Monday. — New Age photo

Nayeem Islam had just finished his dinner in his Uttarbag residence on February 19 when he met Minar, a neighbour and official of Unity Sporting Club, a club in Golapgonj upazila under Sylhet district.

Minar informed him about the ‘Robi Khoj: The Number 1 Spinner’ of Bangladesh Cricket Board, leaving the 19-year old restless.

He practiced until 1:00am that night and attended the trial next morning in Sylhet to draw the attention of the coaches immediately.

Two months later Nayeem was named the ‘Number 1 Spinner’ at a colorful programme in Dhaka’s Sher-e-Bangla National Stadium.

‘I knew I could not be the best spinner of the country training just one night,’ Nayeem told New Age on Monday. ‘Yet I continued training that night because I had a kind of feeling that something might happen,’ he said.

Nayeem, who came from an impoverished family, said he always dreamt about making a career as a spinner.

‘I used to play with tape tennis ball. In my village, I tried to turn the ball in 18-yard pitch. I took my lesson about turning the ball from television commentary,’ said Nayeem, a first-year botany student of Sylhet Murali Chand College.

Mobile phone operator Robi Axiata Limited in association with the BCB arranged the spinner hunt programme, hoping to find some new talent in this department for future.

The multi-level competition that lasted for two months unearthed 10 males, the best female spinner and the best specially-abled spinner, who were all introduced at the prize giving ceremony.

Apart from Nayeem, Nayeem Hossain Sakib of the same district and Rishad Hossain of Rangpur were awarded Best Variation Spinner and Most Accuracy Bowler respectively.

Sultana Khatun of Khulna was adjudged the best woman spinner and Md. Nasim was selected as best physically challenged spinner.

Former leg-spinner and veteran coach Wahidul Gani, who worked as a spin specialist in the event, was hopeful that with proper nurturing the talents that were discovered will bloom properly in coming years.

‘The young spinners just have fulfilled the requirements. These all are talented players and need to work with their bowling in coming 3-4 years,’ said 58-year old Gani, who is revered highly in the cricketing fraternity for producing many talented players.

Top 10 selected players in the campaign are- Nayeem Ahmed, Risat Hossain, Nayeem Hossain Sakib, Hasan Murad, Naimur Rahman Nayan, Ashraful Kabir Tanjil, Sadi Mohammad,Atikuzzaman Saju, Didar Hossain, Raihan Mostafa.

Sultana Khatun (Women’s category) and Md. Nasir (Physically Challenged category).

A total of 10,000 players from around the country participated in the talent hunt programme.