None
DPL starts with promise of intense battle
Gazi Group players are seen during a training session ahead of their Dhaka Premier League campaign on Tuesday. — New Age photo

The Dhaka Premier League, the breeding ground for many budding talents and the top 50-over domestic competition of the country, is all set to get underway today with no team earmarked as clear favourites.

Defending champions Abahani Limited will take on promotees Khelaghar SKS in one of the three matches on the opening day at Fatullah while runners-up Prime Doleshwar to play against Partex in BKSP.

In another important game on the opening day, Mashrafee bin Murtaza and Mushfiqur Rahim’s Legends of Rupganj will face Brothers Union at BKSP.

Players and officials of the participating teams said every match would be crucial in the league with at least six to seven teams vying for the title.

The battle for moving to the Super League would be no less intense as some mid-ranked team, who were not title contenders, would join the race.

‘You cannot say any team really favourite this season,’ said veteran coach Jalal Ahmed Chowdhury, who is in charge of Kalabagan KC. ‘Abahani being the defending champions are of course contenders again, but Mohammedan, Gazi Group, Prime Doleshwar and Prime Bank were expected to give a good fight.

‘For the first time in many seasons, Mohammedan looked like a big team. With Mahsrafee and Mushfiq in the team it would be difficult to rule out Legends of Rupganj as well,’ he said.

Jalal added that teams like Kalabagan, which boasts the presence of Mohammad Ashraful and in-form Tushar Imran, and Sheikh Jamal with Imrul Kayes at their disposal can also fight for a place in the Super League.

‘In plain eyes they may not look like title contenders, but they may easily reach in the Super League,’ said the veteran coach, adding that hot weather and venue crisis could take some gloss off the league.

With some construction and refurbishment works at the Sher-e-Bangla National Stadium, it is unlikely for the Home of Cricket to hold any match of the league this season.

While this must be a bad news for fans, many of whom cannot afford to go to Fatullah and BKSP to watch game, some teams should feel comfortable playing away from the hustle-bustle of the city.

Abahani played most of their matches in the last league at BKSP and allegedly took some favour from umpiring to win the league after consecutive wins in Super League phase.

Team’s coach Khaled Mahmud is confident they can retain the title this season with their youthful squad.

‘We have a good blend of young and experienced player. I am sure if they can play up to their potential, we will win the title again,’ he said.