None
That’s not cricket
While the Bangladesh National Cricket team is hoisting country’s flag high in global arena with continuous good show the country’s lower tier cricket is going through serious anomalies and mayhem.

A Super League match of Dhaka Second Division ODM Cricket League saw a bizarre seen as one team scored 92 runs off just four balls to depict some serious aberrations in the tournament.

Lalmatia Club were bundled out for just 88 in 14 overs in the 50-over game before their bowler Sujon Mahmud conceded 92 runs off just four balls.

Sujon gave away 65 wide balls and 15 no-balls while Axiom Cricketers opener Mustafizur Rahman helped him by scoring three fours in three legitimate balls.

Adnan Rahman, General Secretary of Lalmatia said that his side threw away the match intentionally protesting at the poor umpiring that has been a common feature in the lower-tier tournament that escapes public attention.

Adnan said that he was not present in the City Club ground, the venue of the match, but he was informed by his players that the umpiring discrepancy started right from the toss.

He alleged that the umpire did not even allow them to see the coin after it was thrown for a toss and sent them to bat forcefully before gave some dubious decisions to reduce them to 11-5 in seventh over.

Quoting the players he said that the umpires were totally biased towards Axiom, a club owned by a Bangladesh Cricket Board high-ups and Lalmatia decided to end the show with disdain.

When contacted, cricket committee of Dhaka metropolis member secretary Rakib Haider said they will look into the matter once they get umpires’ report about the matter.

Axiom has been going through a meteoric rise in the local cricket league since it was incepted in the cricketing arena couple of years back.

Axiom automatically qualified to the third division couple years ago as only two teams participated in the third-division qualifying, the bottom tier of the domestic cricket.

Although it was supposed to provide openings for young talents but the participation money was fixed as five lakh taka that barred most of the cricketing schools and minor clubs to take part in the qualifier.

It was alleged that the BCB high ups set the exorbitant fee to support clubs like Axiom that qualified in the second division in the following season before putting them in a good position to qualify for the first division in next season.

It was not the first anomaly in this tournament as New Age reported about a match played on April 3, when the digital scoreboard was manipulated thrice.

On that match played between Kathal Bagan Green Crescent Club and North Bengal Cricket Academy at Jahangir Nagar University in Savar, umpires gave seven leg before decisions against Kathal Bagan.

But those decisions were not reflected in the scorecard as screen shots of scorecard in three different times showed six, five and four leg before decisions respectively.

More about: