None
Sk Jamal in dilemma over foreign players
Three-time Bangladesh Premier League champions Sheikh Jamal Dhanmondi Club were left in a dilemma over recruiting foreign players for the forthcoming season, said the officials.

The club has currently seven foreign players – three Nigerian, as many Gambians and one Argentine – at their disposal with maximum three players allowed for each team.

The decision of Bangladesh Football Federation to reduce the quota of foreign players from four to three put the club in trouble as the officials said they were hoping to sign more players.

With the new decision, a team now can field only two players out of three registered foreigners in the best XI, leaving the local players most crucial for each side unlike the past seasons.

Jamal’s Nigerian coach Joseph Afusi, who returned to the club after a gap of one year, decried BFF’s decision of reducing foreign players’ quota.

‘I was not happy with the decision,’ Afusi said. ‘If you play only with two foreign players, you have to pick at least nine local players, which means Bangladeshi players would be playing against Bangladeshi players leaving them no scope to improve.

‘The competition will be slow. When they play here it would be easy for them but they would struggle in foreign conditions,’ said Afusi, whose team largely depended on foreigners to lift their previous three league titles.

Haitian Sony Norde, Wedson Anselme, Nigerian Emeka Darlington starred for the club in the past seasons but Jamal were struggling to find their suitable replacement for the upcoming season.

Among seven players who are in trial, Jamal have just one player in Gambian midfielder Landing Derboe with proven ability though coach Afusi refused to confirm his inclusion this season.

‘Actually I was not with the team last season, so I would pick only those players who would impress me in the trial,’ Afusi said on Tuesday. ‘I will take more time to pick the right players for the right position.’

Afusi added that there would be little scope for the foreign players to make the difference in the forthcoming season which is why he preferred to pick some quality local players.

‘Foreign players will not make the difference in the league this season. If you don’t have quality local players, winning the title would be difficult for you,’ said the coach, who won the league title with Jamal in 2015.

Afusi claimed that he has some quality young players in Nurul Afsar, Sohel Rana, Mamun, who may impress in the league. ‘Maybe we don’t have superstars; maybe we don’t have enough national team players but we have some good players who are young and talented,’ said the coach.

More about: