None
Mushfiq, Mashrafee kick start for LR
Legends of Rupganj batsman Mushfiqur Rahim (2nd-R) celebrates with team-mate Mashrafee bin Murtaza after their win over Brothers Union in their Dhaka Premier League match at the BKSP on Wednesday. — New Age photo

Skipper Mushfiqur Rahim scored an unbeaten half-century as Legends of Rupganj began their Dhaka Premier League campaign on a perfect style with a four-wicket win over Brothers Union at BKSP on Wednesday.

Mushfiq scored unbeaten 75 runs as Legend’s reached 207-6 in 46.1 overs after restricting Brothers to 206-9, thanks to medium pacer Mohammad Sharif’s three-wicket haul.

Bangladesh one-day international skipper Mashrafee bin Murtaza bowled eight overs without any break for Rupganj and picked 2-28 to show he was feeling no problem with his physical fitness that often let him down at crucial points.

Mashrafee was initially touted to lead Rupganj in the league but he refused to take the responsibility that prompted the management to hand the reign over to Mushfiq.

Mashrafee, who teamed up with Mushfiq for the first time in the league, was happy to take the load of bowling eight long overs as well as being captained by Mushfiq.

‘It is ok Mushfiq is doing the captaincy and there is a different feeling playing under him,’ Mashrafee told reporters at BKSP after the match.

‘I can take some rest and relax,’ he said, adding that he was happy to follow the instruction of his captain while coming into bowl as the second change bowler.

Mashrafee hailed Mushfiq for his batting that helped his side take full points in the opening game.

Mushfiq is always priceless and today he proved that once more,’ said Mashrafee.

‘The opening game is always crucial and we are happy that we could win it without much trouble.

Brothers reduced Rupganj to 81-3 before Mushfiq and Naeem Islam added 50 runs for the fourth wicket to steady the ship.

While Mushfiq played with all his composure during his nearly two and a half hour stay at the wicket on his way to 75 runs with the help of five fours and a six, others contributed decently for them too.

Opener Hasanuzzam made 31 runs and Naeem scored 25 runs while Mosharraf Hossain remained unbeaten on 19 runs to help his side reach the shore with 23 balls to spare.

Earlier, Sharif bowled his heart out with all his experience coming into play to pick 3-25 that left Brothers, who were sent into batting, in all sort of trouble that began with the dismissal of Mirajul Haque with Sharif’s first delivery.

Myshukur made highest 65 runs for Brothers but Rupganj always made sure that the run-rate remained under their control by breaking partnership at crucial junctures.

Brief Scores

Legends of Rupganj v Brothers Union

Brothers 206-9 in 50 overs (Myshukur 65, Dhiman 30 not out, Kamrul 29; Sharif 3-25, Mashrafee 2-28, Asif 2-31) v Legends 207-6 in 46.1 overs (Mushfiq 75 not out, Hasanuzzaman 31; Nehaduzzaman 2-34, Abhishek 2-22)

Result: Legends of Rupganj won by 4 wickets.

Man of the match: Mushfiqur Rahim (Legends)