None
Brilliant Nasir guides Gazi Tank
Gazi Tank batsman Nasir Hossain celebrates his hundred against Mohammedan Sporting Club during their Dhaka Premier League match at the BKSP on Thursday. — New Age photo

Skipper Nasir Hossain scored a brilliant unbeaten century to guide Gazi Tank Cricketers to a seven-wicket win over Mohammedan Sporting Club in the Dhaka Premier League on Thursday.

Nasir scored an unbeaten 106 as Gazi reached 223 -3 in 37 overs after restricting Mohammedan to 220-8 to began their campaign on a right note in this season’s DPL.

Gazi Tank were struggling at 25-2 before Nasir came into bat and played a masterful knock that only reminded his good old past when he was touted as the finisher.

Nasir took his time to settle down picking up his fifty in 69 balls and later batted with full domination to score 106 from as many balls with the help of nine fours and five sixes.

Nasir added 52 runs for the third wicket with Anamul Haque before the latter departed making 54 runs when he tried to slog a short pitch delivery of Rahmat Shah only to be caught at deep mid-wicket.

Nasir and Indian Parvez Rasool (53 not out) added undefeated 144 runs for the fourth wicket to coast Gazi Tank to a comfortable win.

Rasool had Nazmul Milon’s butter finger to thank for dropping him on seven at short mid-wicket off Taijul Islam.

Nasir, who played a perfect late cut against Subashis Roy to bring his hundred, was harsh on Taijul as he hit four out of five sixes against him that included three in one over.

‘I just tried to stay at the wicket because it was a tricky situation when I went to bat,’ Nasir told reporters after the match.

‘It is naturally motivating to score a century and more so as it came in my first game because I feel it would help me to grow my confidence.

‘I was looking forward to form partnership and both Anamul and Parvez gave me the required support.’

However, Nasir was extremely disappointed with their fielding as they dropped at least four catches along with two run outs and two stumpings and in most occasions it was Rahmat Shah to get benefited.

‘It’s true that we fielded badly,’ said Nasir,

‘It was our first game so there was some sort of nervousness but we cannot continue to field in the same manner as it would cost us dearly.’

Mohammedan were struggling at 78-4 before Mehedi Hasan and Rahmat added 118 runs for the fifth wicket to help their team post a respectable total.

Rahmat made highest 78 runs before being run out while Mehedi scored 52 runs and just when it was time for him to blaze pace bowler Alauddin Babu removed him to give his side an upper hand over their opponent.

Brief Scores

Mohammedan SC v Gazi Group Cricketers

Mohammedan SC 220-8 in 50 overs (Rahmat 78, Mehedi Miraz 52; Mehedi 2-29, Alauddin 2-40) v Gazi Group 203-3 in 37 overs (Nasir 106 not out, Anamul 54, Parvez 53 not out;

Taijul 2-61)

Result : Gazi Group Cricketers won by 7 wickets.

Man of the match : Nasir Hossain (Gazi Group)