None
Rubel too hot to handle for Kalabagan
Prime Bank paceman Rubel Hossain shows the ball after claiming six wickets against Kalabagan KC during their Dhaka Premier League match at the BKSP on Thursday. — New Age photo

Pace bowler Rubel Hossain’s six-wicket haul helped Prime Bank earn a five-wicket win over Kalabagan Krira Chakra in the Dhaka Premier League at the BKSP on Thursday.

Beginning with the wicket of Mohammad Asharful, who returned to DPL after a three-year gap, Rubel demonstrated a perfect display of fast bowling by ripping through the Kalabagan innings to finish with 6-21.

Ashraful last played for Old DOHS during the 2011-12 season before the club changed its name to turn into Prime Bank Cricket Club.

Kalabagan were bundled out for 184 runs in 46.2 overs and later Prime reached 186-5 in 46.5 overs on the back of Unmukt Chand’s unbeaten half-century to start their DPL campaign on a winning note.

Ashraful, who returned to DPL after serving his ban due to match-fixing allegation in the Bangladesh Premier League, looked to be unlucky getting an inside edge trying to pull an good length delivery of Rubel to depart after making just six runs.

Kalabagan’s other opener Jasimuddin followed his partner soon as they were struggling at 18-2 before Zimbabwean Hamilton Mazakadza and Tushar Imran steadied the ship adding 87 runs for the third wicket.

Soumya Sarkar with his gentle medium pace removed both of them in quick succession as Masakadza was bowled after making 38 and Tushar followed him scoring 47 runs that brought back the momentum for Prime Bank.

Rubel cleaned up the lower middle order of Kalabagan as they failed to negotiate with his varied pace and some occasional deadly bouncers in the midst of perfect swinging deliveries.

‘Ashraful bhai is playing after a long but knowing his caliber the wicket was important but more than that I am happy after removing Muktar Ali because it was a huge reverse swing,’ Rubel told reporters after the match.

‘This league is very important for me and I am looking forward towards it because I feel if I can perform here, there is a chance for me to get back into the national team.

Kalabagan offered some sort resistance initially when they reduced Prime Bank to 50-3 before Unmukt and Taibur Parvez (27) steadied the ship adding 51 runs for the fourth wicket to lay the foundation of the win.

Unmukt made highest 61 runs off 100 balls including four boundaries to play the role of an anchor while Al-Amin Hossain chipped in with 35 runs.

Brief Scores

Prime Bank CC v Kalabagan KC

Kalabagan KC 184 in 46.2 overs (Tushar 47, Masakadza 38; Rubel 6-21, Soumya 2-33) v Prime Bank CC 186-5 in 46.5 overs (Unmukt 61 not out, Al-Amin 35; Sanjit Saha 3-25)

Result: Prime Bank CC won by 5 wickets.

Man of the Match: Rubel Hossain (Prime Bank)