None
Mehedi focuses on all three formats
Bangladesh all-rounder Mehedi Hasan said on Saturday that he was ready to flourish in all three formats after Tigers opted to play him across all the formats unlike before when he was considered only for Tests.

Mehedi, who made his debut against England last year and made an impact in the Test series immediately, initially looked to be considered for Tests only.

In New Zealand despite being available from the beginning being a touring member, Mehedi did not feature anywhere apart from Test matches.

He also played the only Test match against India and was expected to play only in the two-match Test series against Sri Lanka and return home before the shorter version series.

However, the off-spinner’s fortune changed when he looked to have impressed Chandika Hathurusinghe while bowling with the white ball in the nets and it was to such an extent that he eventually made his debut in ODIs as well as Twenty20internationals in Sri Lanka.

‘I want to play in all three formats and there is no kind of pressure due to that rather I am enjoying it,’ Mehedi told reporters at Mirpur on Saturday.

‘I just don’t want to play in Tests or ODIs or become a T20 specialist.

‘I want to play according to the demand of all the formats and preparing myself that way.’

Mehedi said he was elated to join Trinbago Knight Riders in Caribbean Premier League as the franchise opted to pick him instead of Australian Brad Hogg.

‘I am excited to be part of CPL,’ said Mehedi.

‘Not many cricketers from our country get the opportunity to play in franchise-based Twenty20 cricket.

‘It will help me to grow as a cricketer and I am sure the experience will be invaluable.’

Mehedi added that as for now all his concentration was in the upcoming tour of Ireland and England as Tigers are scheduled to play a tri-nation in Ireland followed by Champions Trophy in England from June 1-18.

Prior to the tri-nation in Ireland, Tigers will have a nearly two-week long camp in England as part of their preparation for the Champions Trophy.

‘This year we are playing mostly in abroad and this is helping us to adapt to foreign conditions,’ said Mehedi.

‘You cannot be recognised as a good team by doing well at home alone so it is important.

‘For us who are new it is even more important as we need to develop the skill to do well both at home and away and only then can we consider us to be a complete cricketer,’ he said.

More about: