None
Govt advises exporters to file appeal against India’s jute AD
An EPB web site photo shows jute Hessian. The commerce ministry on Monday suggested that aggrieved exporters file appeal with the relevant Indian authorities against imposition of anti-dumping duty on export of Bangladeshi jute and jute products to the country.

The commerce ministry on Monday suggested that aggrieved exporters file appeal with the relevant Indian authorities against imposition of anti-dumping duty on export of Bangladeshi jute and jute products to the country.

The government of India on January 5 imposed anti-dumping duty ranging from $19 to $351.72 a tonne on import of jute and jute products from Bangladesh for the next five years.

In a letter to the chairman of Bangladesh Tariff Commission, the ministry also asked the commission to provide necessary assistance to the exporters in this regard.

On the other hands, sector leaders on the day at a meeting with the jute ministry urged the government to raise the issue at the state-level talks during the prime minister Sheikh Hasina’s upcoming India visit in February for withdrawal of the duty as it will severely harm the country’s jute export to the country.

Exporters also requested jute minister Md Emaj Uddin Pramanique to take steps jointly with the commerce ministry to take the issue to the Indian authorities for withdrawal of the duty.

‘A letter was sent to the Tariff Commission requesting it to ask the jute and jute goods exporters to file appeal with the Indian authorities within the stipulated time,’ commerce ministry joint secretary Md Munir Chowdhury told New Age on Monday.

He said that the government would provide necessary technical assistance to the appellants in the legal process.

Aggrieved exporters will get 90 days for filing appeal against the duty imposed by the Directorate General of Anti-dumping and Allied Duties under the finance ministry of India.

All the exporters will have to file appeal individually to the Customs, Excise and Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal of India seeking a review of the decision.

An exporter will have to pay Rs15,000 for filing the appeal. Appellants will get opportunity of hearing.

Officials of the commerce ministry, however, said that the ministry including its research wing Bangladesh Tariff Commission had hardly any experts to fight with the highly professional technical persons of DGAD and CEGAT.

Even the private sector doesn’t also have any expertise in facing the anti-dumping duty and relevant measures as such issue is relatively newer for the country, officials of the BTC said.

In this context, the commerce ministry early last year requested the Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry to set up an anti-dumping cell and provides trainings to the private sector people on the issues.

The ministry will also train BTC officials so that they can provide better services to the private sector.

Shippers Council of Bangladesh chairman Md Rezaul Karim, who attended the exporters’ meeting with the jute ministry, told New Age that they requested the ministry to discuss the matter with the commerce ministry and to take steps to solve the problem.

Meeting sources said that state minister for jute Mirza Azam assured the exporters that he would inform the prime minister about the issue and would request her to discuss the issue with the Indian prime minister during her India visit.

He also suggested that the exporters challenge the issue legally as India imposed the duty through legal process.

Representatives from Bangladesh Jute Spinners Association, Bangladesh Jute Mills Association, Bangladesh Jute Goods Exporters Association, Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation and different jute mills attended the meeting.



