None
The struggle of a Kashmir warrior
Parvez Rasool

Jammu and Kashmir is one of the unfavourable places to play cricket due to political turmoil but that could not resist Parvez Rasool from honing his skills as an off-spinner as he took the aide of internet.

Parvez, who came into the lime-light after being picked in the Indian Premier League as the first man from Jammu and Kashmir, defied all the odds and created a huge inspiration for the young men of the war-torn state.

Parvez did not have the privilege of using proper infrastructure but that did not seem to be a problem for the indomitable young man as he chose to become a techno-savvy to fulfill his cricketing passion.

He analysed videos available in the internet and learnt many skills from them that helped him become a standout performer in Ranji Trophy in 2012-13 to get Lala Amarnath award (the best all-rounder for limited over domestic cricket) and Indian selectors picked him for India ‘A’ side before he made his debut in the one-day internationals against Bangladesh in 2014.

That has been the only ODI so far for him and although he made his debut in the Twenty20 in Zimbabwe last year he is still fighting to make his footing strong as he came back to the land where he made his international debut to play in the ongoing Dhaka Premier Division League for Gazi Tank Cricketers.

‘These days cricket is very modern and everything is available in internet,’ said the 28-year old Rasool to New Age after playing his first game in DPL at the BKSP on Saturday.

‘I watched how others play and tried to develop my skills keeping that in mind after watching them in the internet.’

Rasool revealed his story and depicted how he got the exposures to become a professional cricketer.

‘There is a corporate in Kashmir and the owner is Faruk Amin spice business. He was the first one who picked some young players from Jammu and Kashmir and arranged some matches in Delhi just to show our talent’, said Rasool.

‘Due to that corporate, I got an exposure in the junior level and gradually after performing I debuted in Ranji in 2008.

‘But I still believe it was important for me to do well in the Under-22 level against other states because I knew my only platform to showcase my talent was limited in those age level matches unless someone picked me to play for his state.’

Rasool, who came from a family of cricketers from the town of Bij Behara in the southern Kashmir valley district of Anantnag, said the biggest motivation for him came when he got the Lala Amarnath award.

Rasool scored 663 runs with two centuries and three half-centuries at an average of 51 and took 27 wickets with two 5 wicket hauls in 9 matches.

‘Probably that is when people started noticing me’, said Rasool.

‘That award was the turning point of my life because it was a great source of motivation.

‘I came to limelight when I took seven wickets against Australia.

‘Naturally there was lot of struggle for me. First of all there was no one coming out from our state so my journey was never easy.’ he added.

Rassol said that he was eyeing to make a claim in the Test squad some day as it is one format he is eagerly waiting to play due to his passion for longer version cricket.

‘I am hoping someday I will play Test cricket because you get a lot of time there and it is something that I always preferred as a cricketer,’ he said.

Despite the inspirational rise of the man from the war-torn state he became the centre of a controversy as he did not sing the national anthem during his Twenty20 debut but the all-rounder claimed it was nothing intentional at all.

Rasool looked disappointed over the issue and he took a grudge over the media as they put undue pressure on a rookie rather than helping him in the delicate time.

‘I think a cricketer should be allowed to play cricket rather than some media pushing him into all sorts of trouble despite he is not at fault intentionally’, said Rasool.

‘When I was making my debut lot of things went around my head where will I pitch the ball and how will I respond to different situation and all those things.

‘Instead of supporting me to overcome my nervousness media implicated me unnecessarily to a controversy and it was disappointing.’

Parvez also informed that Bangladeshi players, especially Sakib al Hasan is very popular in Jammu & Kashmir.