None
DPL resumes after three days gap
After a break of three days Dhaka Premier Division League will resume today with three second round matches in two different venues.

Defending champions Abahani Limited will be confident to keep their winning run when they take on Partex Sporting Club, one of the two newly promoted teams in BKSP.

Abahani clinched a brilliant win on back of their batting strength that is built with some young talents and experienced campaigners when they beat the other newcomers Khelaghar SKS in the first match.

Mosaddek Hossain, one of the revelations for Bangladesh in last couple of years, scored a brilliant century and the young batsman got great support from Mahmudullah, who made 59, to chase down 293 of KSKS.

Partex received a battering as they lost by 78 runs in their first match against last year’s runners-up Prime Doleshwar but their Indian recruit Yashpal Singh shone with bat.

Doleshwar spinner Arafat Sunny, who had some torrid time on and off the field, showed a glimpse of his old self by picking up five wickets against Partex.

Doleshwar, led by veteran Farhad Reza, also will get the service of experienced Shahriar Nafees and Marshall Ayub that will make them confident to beat Brothers Union at Fatullah today.

Myshukur Rahman-led Brothers, who have Alok Kapali, Junaid Siddique, Dhiman Ghosh and Indian Arun Nayar at their disposal, are expected to provide a stiff battle after their loss to Legends of Rupganj in the first match.

Rupganj, the team that has both Test and shorter-version skipper of Bangladesh, Mushfiqur Rahim and Mashrafee bin Murtaza, will be pumped up to take on Sheikh Jamal Dhanmondi Club at BKSP.

Mashrafee, the charismatic skipper of Bangladesh, let Mushfiq to lead the side but bowled eight overs on the trot to return with 2-28 that lifted the morale of his side.

Experienced pacer Mohammad Sharif bowled well in that match and Rupganj will also depend on veteran spinner Mosharraf Hossain and young batsman Yasir Ali.

Jamal will also be keen to keep their winning run after they beat Victoria Sporting Club by two wickets.

The team consisted of national players like Imrul Kayes and Nurul Hasan along with experienced Abdur Razzak, Elias Sunny, Rajin Saleh and Sohag Gazi may produce the match of the day against Rupganj.

More about: