None
Firmino lifts Liverpool, MU beat Chelsea
Manchester United’s Marcus Rashford scores a goal during their English Premiership match against Chelsea at Old Trafford on Sunday. — Reuters photo

Roberto Firmino fired Liverpool to a 1-0 victory at West Bromwich Albion on Sunday that moved Jurgen Klopp’s men back into third place in the Premier League.

Manchester United got a satisfied home win as Jose Mourinho’s side beat his former club Chelsea by 2-0 thanks to the goals of Marcus Rashford and Ander Herera at Old Trafford.

Firmino settled a scrappy game with a close-range header in first half stoppage-time to condemn Albion boss Tony Pulis to his first ever home league defeat against the Reds.

The Brazilian converted a flick-on from Lucas Leiva to seal a fifth win in their last seven games for Liverpool.

They are unbeaten since losing at Leicester in late February and now lead fourth-placed Manchester City by two points, although Pep Guardiola’s team have a game in hand in the race for an automatic spot in the Champions League group stage.

West Brom had the first opening when Liverpool failed to clear their lines and Matt Phillips picked up possession on the edge of the area.

He struck a shot that deflected to Hal Robson-Kanu but the Wales forward could not react quickly enough to turn it home.

However, Liverpool should have led on 15 minutes when they pounced on a hesitation from Claudio Yacob in the West Brom midfield, stole possession and broke with pace.

Lucas fed Philippe Coutinho, who burst into the area and hit a cross-shot that flew narrowly wide of Ben Foster’s goal.

West Brom then missed a glorious chance from a well-worked free-kick that saw Phillips volley a cross towards Nacer Chadli at the far post.

After struggling to break down West Brom’s resistance, Liverpool went ahead through a set-piece on the stroke of half-time.

Chris Brunt was penalised for a foul on Divock Origi, and from James Milner’s free-kick the visitors took the lead.

It was flicked on by Lucas to Firmino, who nodded home after reacting quicker than Craig Dawson.

Origi could have doubled the visitors’ lead early in the second half when he cut in from the left and curled a right-footed shot just beyond the far post.

Milner should have scored moments later when he arrived late to meet a cross by Firmino, only to side-foot a volley over the crossbar.

A rare chance for Pulis’s side came with 12 minutes remaining as Jake Livermore dragged a shot well wide of Mignolet’s goal.

But two minutes later they should have been level after Liverpool gifted possession to Salomon Rondon, who moved towards goal before feeding Phillips.

The winger connected well with his shot but it was smothered low down by Mignolet.

Liverpool substitute Alberto Moreno angered Klopp in stoppage-time when, with Foster forward for a corner, he led a Liverpool counter-attack but opted to shoot from distance at an open goal and missed, with team-mates screaming for a pass.

At Old Trafford United’s French striker Rashford received an exquisite pass from Herrera and cut across Chelsea centre back David Luiz before sending the ball home to give his side the lead in the seventh minute.

During the 48th minute United’s Ashley Young drove the ball to Herrera in the penalty box receiving a deep free kick from Rashford and the Spaniard’s shot found the net after deflecting Chelsea defender Kurt Zouma.

Despite the loss Chelsea are still on top with 75 points, four more than their nearest rivals Tottenham Hotspurs with six games to go.