None
Bangladesh woos US-born athlete
Alida Sikder, a US-born Bangladeshi athlete, finally got an opportunity to represent Bangladesh as the Bangladesh Olympic Association included her in the national contingent for the upcoming 4th Islamic Solidarity Games.

The multi-discipline meet will be held from May 12 to 22 in Baku, Azerbaijan, where Alida will take part in the 100-metre sprint and long-jump events.

The 21-year old student of University of Southern California will join the Bangladesh contingent directly in Baku, said the officials of Bangladesh Athletics Federation on Sunday.

Alida, daughter of Bangladeshi expatriate Momenuddin Sikder, was born and brought up in USA and began her athletics career at the early age to get some notable success at school and state level.

‘We considered her performances in the inter school and college championships in USA. We came to know that she became best long-jumper once in her state,’ Abdur Rakib Montu, the general secretary of Bangladesh Athletics Federation said on Sunday.

Bangladesh Olympic Association was in touch with Alida before the 2016 South Asian Games but she reportedly skipped the meet following an advice of her coach.

‘Her performance in the college level was really impressive,’ BOA deputy secretary general Ashikur Rahman Miku said.

‘Compare to local athletes her performance was better which prompted us to include her in the Islamic Solidarity Games,’ he said.

Alida however is not the first US-born athlete to represent Bangladesh in a multi-discipline meet.

Gymnast Syque Caesar represented Bangladesh in Olympic 2012 with high hopes though he could not qualify for the final round for any event there.

Caesar was given a wild card for Olympics after he won a gold medal for Bangladesh at the Central South Asian Artistic Gymnastics Championships in December 2011 in Dhaka.

Bangladesh will send a contingent of around 40 members including officials to participate in eight disciplines of the 11-day long meet.

More about: