None
DPL matches to be captured by V-cam
The Bangladesh Cricket Board is all set to introduce video camera from the second round of the ongoing Dhaka Premier League in order to help officials evaluate the performance of its umpires.

The move came after umpiring controversies ruined the previous edition when BCB had even barred the clubs from recording their own matches.

Several clubs were highly critical of the BCB for the move saying that it was a backward step taken only to help certain rivals.

One of the title contenders Prime Bank Cricket Club had to cancel the appointment of its video analysts as they could not record the matches.

It was speculated that the BCB would persist with the same rule despite criticisms, sometimes even from its own directors.

The criticism grew louder during the opening round of the league when local television had been barred from recording the matches from their preferred angles.

However, Ovi Abdullah al Noman, the umpires’ committee in-charge of the BCB said they barred TV cameramen as they have their own plan for recording the games.

‘We will have three cameras in each game from the second round so that we can evaluate the performance of the umpires,’ he said. ‘We could not use it in the opening round due to lack of logistic supports but our cameras are ready to use,’ he said.

The introduction of video camera also looked to have given the members of national selectors some relief as they were hoping to use it to evaluate the performance of players those are under their selection radar.

The first four rounds of DPL are expected to be crucial for several players who are trying to make the cut in national set-up for the upcoming assignments that include a tri-nation in Ireland and Champions Trophy in England.

The deadline for announcement of the Champions Trophy squad is April 26.

All-rounder Nasir Hossain and pace bowler Rubel Hossain are among the few players desperately looking forward to make their presence felt and they did it in style in their respective opening round matches.

Nasir scored an unbeaten century for Gazi Group Cricketers while Rubel grabbed six wickets for Prime Bank Cricket Club but much to the disappointment of the players their performance was only half-noticed.

Chief selector Minhajul Abedin said on Sunday that he had left the ground after Nasir reached 39 while no other selector was present to observe his century.

With national head coach Chandika Hathurusinghe enjoying vacation with his family and scheduled to join the team only in England when they begin their preparation camp, video records of the players are expected to be crucial.

Chief selector Minhajul welcomed the initiative of recording the matches as he felt it would help them a lot to understand the condition of the players’ attitude right in the middle.

‘I saw Nasir’s [Hossain] batting till he was 39 but later I had to leave for personal reason,’ he said.

‘Now we can have the video footage to assess their form and even sent it to coach [Chandika Hathurusinghe] if he desires to have a look,’ he said.

More about: