None
PM joins Munich security conference
Prime minister Sheikh Hasina receives a bouquet from the wife of Bangladesh ambassador to Germany Imtiaz Ahmed after she arrived at Munich international airport on Friday morning. — Focusbangla photo

Bangladesh prime minister Sheikh Hasina on Friday joined the three-day Munich Security Conference, world’s most important independent forum for exchanging views by international security and policy decision makers on international security challenges, that began at Bayerischer Hof hotel here.

Some 500 decision-makers from across the globe, including more than 25 heads of state and government, 47 foreign ministers, 30 defence ministers, UN secretary general and 90 parliamentarians are taking part in the conference.

This year, relations between the US and Europe, and among European states, Trump, Brexit, EU and NATO crises remain at the centre of discussions, officials said.

Prime minister Sheikh Hasina joined the inaugural ceremony of the convention.

Chairman of the conference ambassador Wolfgang Ischinger formally opened the conference followed by opening statements of German and US defence ministers- Ursula von der Leyen and James N Mattis.

German chancellor, US vice president, UN secretary general, presidents of Poland and Afghanistan, prime minister of Norway and foreign ministers of Russia, China, UK, Saudi Arabia and Iran attended the opening session.

Prime minister Sheikh Hasina will take part in a high level discussion today and deliver speech highlighting security issues like climate change, water, food and migration, according to the ministry of foreign affairs.

In the evening, prime minister Sheikh Hasina along with participating leaders would attend a reception to be hosted by the mayor of Munich City in honour of the conference guests.

The prime minister is also scheduled to hold a bilateral meeting with German chancellor Angela Merkel today, when both leaders would discuss various issues relating to mutual and multilateral interests.

On the sidelines of the conference, hundreds of bilateral diplomatic meetings as well as side events by renowned international institutions and organisations are set to take place.

Earlier, prime Minister Sheikh Hasina arrived here Friday morning on a three-day official visit to Germany to attend the 53rd Munich Security Conference.

During the visit, the Bangladesh premier will also hold bilateral talks with German chancellor Angela Merkel.

An Etihad Airways flight carrying the premier and her entourage members landed at Munich international airport at 6:00am.

Bangladesh ambassador to Germany Imtiaz Ahmed received the prime minister at the airport.

On her way to Munich, Sheikh Hasina made a one hour stopover at Abu Dhabi international airport in the UAE.

After the reception at the Munich international airport, the prime minister in a ceremonial motorcade was taken to Munich Marriott Hotel at Berliner Strasse, where she will be staying during the visit.

In the evening, she will leave Munich for Dhaka and is expected to reach Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport at 8:00pm on Sunday after making over a six-hour stopover in Abu Dhabi.

Twenty heads of states and government will join the Munich conference which is being considered as the ‘Best Think Tank Conference’ in the present discourses on world security, foreign minister AH Mahmood Ali told a media briefing in Dhaka on Wednesday.

Munich Security Conference started its journey in 1963. Over the past five decades, the Munich Security Conference has become the major global forum for the discussion of security policy.

Each February, it brings together senior decision makers from around the world, including heads of state and government, ministers, leading personalities of international and non-governmental organisations, as well as high ranking representatives of industry, media, academia, and civil society, to engage in an intensive debate on current and future security challenges.