None
Bourses seek increase in tax-free dividend income
A file photo shows commuters walking in front of Dhaka Stock Exchange in the city. Dhaka stocks declined for the third trading session on Sunday as many of the investors became jittery amid wait-and-see policy taken by some institutional investors who had booked profits in recent market surge. — New Age photo

The two stock exchanges of the country on Sunday demanded that the National Board of Revenue raise the limit on tax-free dividend income of investors from their stock market investment to make the market vibrant and attract more individual investors to it.

At a pre-budget discussion with the revenue board held at the NBR conference room in the capital Dhaka, the Dhaka Stock Exchange and the Chittagong Stock Exchange separately placed the proposal along with other suggestions.

The DSE and the CSE also demanded increasing the corporate tax gap between listed and non-listed companies to 20 per cent from the exiting 10 per cent in the budget for the next fiscal year to encourage non-listed companies to be listed with the stock exchanges.

The bourses also sought full tax-holiday for them for the next three to five years.

According to the proposals submitted by the DSE, small investors should be given tax exemption on dividend income up to Tk 1 lakh from the existing Tk 25,000 considering the current market scenario.

The waiver would help attract small investors to invest on the capital market that would ultimately enhance the growth and development of the market which is now facing serious liquidity crisis, the DSE said.

It also proposed increasing the corporate tax gap between publicly traded and non-publicly traded companies to 20 per cent from the current 10 per cent.

DSE acting managing director Abdul Matin Patwary said that the rise in the corporate tax gap would attract more multinational companies, large local companies and government entities to get listed with the market.

He said income-tax holiday for the bourses up to 2019 would facilitate continuation of the stock exchanges’ reforms activities they initiated after their demutualisation in November, 2013.

The stock exchanges are supposed to pay 40 per cent of their total applicable taxes in the fiscal year 2016-2017 under a gradually diminishing tax exemption facility given by the NBR for the sector.

The DSE and the CSE enjoyed two year tax holiday under the scheme. The rate of exemption will reduce to 40 per cent and to 20 per cent respectively in the next two years.

CSE managing director Saifur Rahman Mazumdar said that strategic and policy supports including widening the gap of corporate tax between listed and non-listed companies would bring more companies including

the MNCs to the capital market.

At the meeting, the SME Foundation demanded an increase in the limit on VAT-free annual turnover to Tk 36 lakh and in the upper limit on annual turnover for turnover tax to Tk 1.50 crore in the new VAT law from the existing Tk 30 lakh and Tk 80 lakh respectively.

The Foundation also sought introducing of VAT at reduced rates for small and medium businesses and shopkeepers including restaurant owners from 15 per cent under the new law which is scheduled to come into force from July 1.

The Bangladesh Insurance Association sought withdrawal of 5 per cent advance income tax on profit from insurance policy and 15 per cent VAT on agents’ commission.

The Bangladesh Leasing and Finance Companies Association demanded withdrawal of advance tax on income from zero coupon bonds.

The Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of Bangladesh recommended that the revenue board increase the tax-free dividend income limit to Tk 50,000 for the sake of small investors.

The ICMAB also suggested that the NBR impose 50 per cent tax on above 200-per cent cash dividend declared by foreign companies.

The institute sought an increase in the tax-free income limit for individual taxpayers to Tk 3 lakh from the current Tk 2.50 lakh.

Representatives of Bangladesh Merchant Banks Association, DSE Brokers Association and Dhaka Taxes Bar Association participated, among others, in the meeting which was presided over by NBR chairman Md Nojibur Rahman.