None
Govt may launch provident fund for informal sector workers in May
A file photo shows a rickshaw puller counting taka notes in Dhaka. The government is likely to introduce provident fund for the informal sector labourers across the country, who have limited legal scope to organise to protect their rights, by May this year. — AFP photo

The government is likely to introduce provident fund for the informal sector labourers across the country, who have limited legal scope to organise to protect their rights, by May this year.

The labour ministry has already finalised Informal Sector Workers’ Provident Fund Rules-2017 for the scheme aimed at ensuring economic and social security of the workers.

The ministry is expected to launch the provident fund programme for the informal sector workers by the end of this month or early May in presence of prime minister Sheikh Hasina.

‘We will try to get a slot from the prime minister in last week of this month or first week of May. The labour ministry would sign a memorandum of understanding with post office in presence of the prime minister so that workers can open accounts for provident fund in any branch of post office across the country,’ labour secretary Mikail Shipar told New Age.

After getting application from workers for opening provident fund account, the post office would inform the ministry and the ministry would scrutinize the applications for approval, he said.

Labour secretary said that the ministry has formulated the provident fund rules for informal sector workers under a provision of the Bangladesh Labour Welfare

Foundation Act 2006 and the labourers who work in the sector out of the purview of labour act would also be entitled to provident fund facility.

There are 42 industrial sectors including garment, leather, pharmaceuticals, jute, ship-breaking, cold storage, plastic, chemical, fertilizer and those are known as formal sectors and the workers of the sectors are protected by the labour act.

There are lots of workers in the country’s informal sectors including agricultural worker, blacksmith, carpenter, rickshaw-van puller, domestic workers, construction, electric, shoe, steel and engineering, welding workers, security guards, cleaner, tailoring workers and hawkers but they have no legal protection.

According to the rules, the provident fund would be formed through the contribution by the workers and government set workers welfare fund and if the workers worked in any small economic unit the fund would be formed by the contribution of workers, owners and the welfare fund.

The tenure of the provident fund would be 25 years and worker would not get the government contribution if he or she fails to continue the fund for less than five years.

Initially workers’ monthly deposit would be Tk 100 and the government will also contribute the same amount to the workers account from the workers welfare foundation.

As per the rules, a worker can deposit highest Tk 500 per month while the government’s maximum contribution would be Tk 250 per month.

After the maturity of the tenure, workers would get total amount of money contributed by workers and foundation with the interest offered by the savings institute and additional 10 per cent interest on total deposit from the foundation.

In case of permanent disability or death of workers, his or her nominee would get Tk 2 lakh, for any fatal disease after three years of opening account for the provident fund worker would get up to Tk 1 lakh and female workers would get maternity benefits up to Tk 25,000 twice during the PF fund tenure from the WWF under the provident fund rules.

Shipar said that workers of agricultural sector, poultry and fisheries, cottage industry, construction sector, domestic worker, hawker, security guard, rickshaw puller, day labourers and tailors would get priority for the benefit.