None
Streamline investment in non-listed cos
The Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission has instructed trustees of all mutual funds to streamline their investment of the funds’ money in non-listed securities in line with the mutual fund rules.

The trustees oversee mutual funds while the asset management companies operate the funds.

The capital market regulator gave the instruction after the trustees of the mutual funds submitted data on the MFs’ investment in non-listed securities.

A BSEC official told New Age on Monday that the commission recently issued separate letters to the trustees in this regard.

BSEC’s initial findings suggest a number of mutual funds did not comply with the securities rules in making investment in non-listed securities, he said.

Despite the violation, the commission has so far refrained from taking any harsh measure against trustees or asset management companies of the mutual funds so that they can bring down their investment in non-listed securities within the stipulated limit, the BSEC official said.

The commission asked the entities to follow the rule number 55 of Securities and Exchange Commission (Mutual Fund) Rules, 2001 in bringing down the investment.

The BSEC official said the commission would take its next course of action in this regard based on the next report on the MFs’ investment.

As per the mutual fund rules, closed-end mutual funds are allowed to invest up to 60 per cent of their fund size in listed securities including initial public offering and pre-IPO placement shares.

Of the 60 per cent, half of the amount has to be invested in listed securities.

In case of investing in non-listed securities, MFs are allowed to invest only in those companies which have got the BSEC’s approval for issuing pre-IPO placement shares.

Closed-end MFs are allowed to invest the rest 40 per cent of their fund size in entities other than capital market instruments including banks and non-bank financial institutions.

Investments by MFs in non-listed securities in violation of securities rules first came into light in 2010 when the commission found LR Global Bangladesh Asset Management Company made Tk 46.39 crore investment in non-listed companies from its mutual funds in violation of rules.

Based on the finding, the commission in 2015 fined LR Global Bangladesh Asset Management Company Tk 50 lakh, Bangladesh General Insurance Company (trustee of LR Global-managed mutual funds) Tk 25 lakh and Hoda Vasi Chowdhury, auditor of LR Global, Tk 5 lakh.

The capital market regulator also barred LR Global from forming any fresh fund for one year.

More about: