None
PM’s India visit now scheduled for April
Prime minister Sheikh Hasina’s postponed visit to India is now expected to take place in the first half of April.

‘The reciprocal visit of prime minister Sheikh Hasina to India will take place in the first half of April,’ prime minister’s deputy press secretary Nazrul Islam told reporters on Thursday.

He made the statement after Indian external affairs secretary S Jaishankar, who arrived in Dhaka at 2:00pm on Thursday on a two-day official visit, called on the prime minister at her parliament office at about 5:00pm.

State minister for foreign affairs M Shahriar Alam, prime minister’s principal secretary Kamal Abdul Naser Chowdhury, foreign secretary M Shahidul Haque and Indian high commissioner to Bangladesh Harsha Bardhan Shringla were present.

Jaishankar told Hasina that the bilateral ties between the two neighbouring countries would be strengthened further through the proposed visit, according to Nazrul.

The visit will mainly focus on mutual interests and development initiatives alongside connectivity, Jaishankar said.

The prime minister was scheduled for December 18-20, 2016 to visit India at the invitation of her counterpart Narendra Modi.

The visit was postponed when both sides were engaged in intense negotiations on signing of over two dozen instruments and making formal announcements on issues, including matters that had certain degree of sensitivity.

During his two-day stay in Dhaka, the Indian external affairs secretary discussed the proposed visit of Hasina to India and reviewed areas of bilateral cooperation between the two countries.

Jaishankar is set to leave Dhaka for Colombo this morning.

The Indian external affairs secretary also called on his Bangladesh counterpart Shahidul Haque.

The two secretaries also discussed preparatory aspects of the proposed visit of the prime minister, said a release of the Indian High Commission in Dhaka.

They reviewed the areas of bilateral cooperation between the two countries.

Both sides noted with appreciation that there had been excellent implementation of decisions taken during the visit of the Indian prime minister to Bangladesh in June 2015.

Five strategic issues are likely to be discussed during the proposed visit of Hasina to India, officials said.

Possibility of signing an agreement on sharing of Teesta river water between the two countries, construction of the Ganges Barrage with participation of India, use of Chittagong and Mongla seaports by India, expansion of defence cooperation and completion of the implementation of the land boundary agreement are likely to get priority in the official talks between Hasina and Narendra Modi, officials in the two capitals said.

In protracted negotiations for several decades, Bangladesh has been requesting for signing a deal on sharing waters of Teesta, one of the 54 common rivers.

Bangladesh and India earlier agreed to conduct a joint survey on the Indian side of the cross-border river Padma for construction of the Ganges Barrage at Pangsa in Rajbari.

Bangladesh requested India to resolve disputes on drawing boundary lines by signing the strip map of Muhurir Char for ending protracted row over two acres of land that put the implementation of the 1974 Land Boundary Agreement in its entirety on hold.

India is pushing Bangladesh for signing an instrument on a framework of defence cooperation, the officials said.

More about: