None
Reduce tension, use seas to promote friendship, PM to IORA
Stressing the importance of blue economy for future development, prime minister Sheikh Hasina on Tuesday urged the leaders of Indian Ocean Rim Association to reduce tension in the region, respect the freedom of navigation and use seas to promote friendship.

Addressing the Leaders' Summit in commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the Indian Ocean Rim Association at Jakarta convention center in Jakarta, the prime minister also called on the IORA leaders to dedicate themselves to strengthening maritime cooperation for a peaceful, stable and prosperous Indian Ocean.

‘If blue economy were to guide our economics in the future, then we should use our seas to promote friendship and curb tension in the region, respect freedom of navigation and cooperate through the mechanism of IORA,’ Sheikh Hasina said.

Terming Blue Economy as the common interest of all the IORA member states, she said their quest for development through oceans and seas is part of their larger efforts to transform Bangladesh along with the rim countries. ‘Let's set sail together.’

The prime minister proposed establishing Indian Ocean Technical and Vocational University in Bangladesh for creating a pool of skilled mariners for the region and thanked the IORA leadership for adopting the IORA Concord and its Action Plan for strengthening maritime partnership.

Hasina mentioned that her government integrated SDG-14 in its 7th five year plan renewing its focus on blue economy.

She said Bangladesh sees the IORA as a natural habitat for the efforts to project its aspirations jointly with the nations of the region and beyond.

‘Indian Ocean is of paramount significance to us for security, connectivity, peace and prosperity.’

Hasina mentioned that it constitutes the lifeline of the globalised world providing passage to half of its container ships, one-third of the bulk cargo traffic and two thirds of its oil shipments. Connectivity is critical for peace and development and Bangladesh attaches high priorities to connectivity, she added.

‘We would like to connect not only physically but also connect through ideas, innovation, trade, finance, culture and tourism. More importantly, we would like to connect human minds to build peaceful and prosperous societies,’ Hasina told her audience.

Talking about the safety and rights of the mariners and other ocean going mariners, she called upon all to ensure those and said despite global reputation for their skills and dedicated workmanship, Bangladesh seamen and marine engineers sometimes face unwarranted challenges.

Reiterating her zero tolerance to terrorism and violent extremism, the prime minister mentioned that her government's approach also encompasses maritime safety and security. ‘The declaration on countering violent extremism leading to terrorism by the IORA would definitely enhance cooperation and coordination among the member countries.’

Indicating the adverse impacts of the climate change, Hasina said Bangladesh still remains hostage of adverse impacts of climate change despite efforts.

‘And that means we are advancing towards an alarming rise at the sea level. It is predicted that with one meter rise in the sea level Bangladesh will lose one-third of our most valuable agricultural land and displace about 18 million people.’

She also mentioned that Bangladesh is not responsible for creating global warming but it has been the worst sufferers.

Putting emphasis on the positive impact of regional energy cooperation on national endeavors towards sustainable energy exploration, she said, ‘We have already taken initiatives to expand power and energy trade with our neighbours, developing a renewable energy circuit using ocean and atmospheric forces based on maritime industries.’