None
Non destruction of stocks pose threat to society
The government’s failure to destroy 15,000 kg of pseudoephedrine in the stocks of nine importers pose serious threat to the society as the banned substance could be used for Yaba production.

In February, the government banned import of pseudoephedrine by pharmaceutical firms even for the production of cold medicines as it could be misused for Yaba production.

According to the drug administration and the department of narcotics control officials, around 15,000 kg of pseudoephedrine imported by nine pharmaceutical companies between September and December were in their stocks.

It costs up to $67 to import one kg of pseudoephedrine, they said.

And one kg of pseudoephedrine is good for producing four lakh Yaba pills worth around $626,000, said the officials.

It was highly risky to allow the importers to keep the banned substance in their stockpiles, they said.

On February 22, the government banned pseudoephedrine imports and cancelled the registration of all the medicines produced using the banned substance.

The government also ordered pharmaceutical companies to withdraw from the market and destroy, within three months, the medicines they produced using pseudoephedrine as an ingredient.

Narcotics control officials said that they failed to understand why no decision was taken by the Drug Control Committee headed by the health secretary to destroy the stocks of pseudoephedrine as well as the medicines made with it as the ingredient though the issue was discussed at high level government meetings.

Drug Administration director general Major General Md Mustafizur Rahman told New Age Wednesday that pharmaceutical companies had been asked to withdraw and destroy all cold medicines they made using pseudoephedrine as an ingredient within three months and report compliance.

He skipped the question why the Drug Administration would not destroy the stocks.

But he said a four-member monitoring committee would be formed to stop the misuse of pseudoephedrine in Bangladesh.

The ban on pseudoephedrine imports would create no problems as the substance was not used for the production of life saving drugs, Mustafiz said.

More about: