None
Melania Trump helps present courage awards to 13 women
US first lady Melania Trump presents the 2017 Secretary’s of State’s International Women of Courage (IWOC) Award to Sharmin Akter of Bangladesh on Wednesday at the State Department in Washington. — AP photo

Melania Trump helped present State Department awards Wednesday to 13 women from around the globe who were recognised for demonstrating courage and leadership in the face of adversity, a group she praised as ‘true heroes.’

Wednesday’s honourees hail from Bangladesh, Botswana, Colombia, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Iraq, Niger, Papua

New Guinea, Peru, Sri Lanka, Syria, Turkey, Vietnam and Yemen. In April, the women will take part in a State Department-sponsored exchange programme in several US cities.

More than 100 women from more than 60 countries have been recognised with courage awards since 2007, the department said.

The first lady, on her first visit to a cabinet department, joined Thomas Shannon, undersecretary of state for political affairs, to present the secretary of state’s International Women of Courage Award. Secretary of state Rex Tillerson was traveling to Turkey.

The award is given to women around the world who have shown courage and leadership while advocating for peace, justice, human rights, gender equality and women’s empowerment – often at personal risk.

One of the honourees, Natalia Ponce de Leon, of Colombia, started a foundation to defend and protect the human rights of victims of acid attacks after a stalker doused her face and body with sulfuric acid in March 2014.

Another woman, Malebogo Molefhe, of Botswana, became an advocate for female victims of gender-based violence after she was attacked, including being shot eight times, by an ex-boyfriend in 2009. She uses a wheelchair due to injuries suffered during the assault.

During brief remarks, Mrs. Trump asked the audience to imagine being any of the 13 women on stage with her.

‘Ask yourself if you would have the fortitude of spirit, the courage of your convictions and the enormous inner strength required to stand up and fight against such overwhelming odds,’ she said. ‘Amazingly, each of our honorees has courageously answered ‘Yes’ to those questions.’

‘These honourees, who have fought on the front lines against injustice, are true heroes,’ she continued, adding that their bravery is a reminder that ‘there is always hope whenever the human spirit is brought to bear in the service of others.’