None
Modi assures of Teesta agreement at the earliest
Bangladesh prime minister Sheikh Hasina shakes hand with Indian prime minister Narendra Modi before their talks at Hyderabad House in New Delhi on Saturday.-- Indian MEA photo

Indian prime minister Narendra Modi on Saturday assured of signing an agreement on Teesta River water sharing at the earliest.

He said this during making a statement after official talks with visiting Bangladesh prime minister Sheikh Hasina in New Delhi.

Sheikh Hasina and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee were also present there.

Altogether 34 deals over various issues at government and business levels were signed between the neighbouring countries in presence of the prime ministers.

The deals include a memorandum of understanding to open a new line of credit for about $500 million from India for defence purchase and another memorandum of understanding opening a third line of credit for about $4.5 billion from India under conditions usually applied for supplier’s credit for 18 development projects.

The Indian government published the Hindi version of The Unfinished Memoirs, autobiography by Bangladesh’s founding president Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, today.

Besides, new bus services for Khulna-Kolkata route and trial run of Khulna-Kolkata 2nd Maitree Express were flagged off while Biral-Radhikapur railway route for freight was reopened.

The two prime ministers started a one-on-one meeting at Hyderabad House around 11:30am (local time), before the official talks with participation of other delegation members.

Earlier, the Bangladesh prime minister, now on a four-day official visit to India, was accorded a warm ceremonial reception at the forecourt of Rashtrapati Bhawan in New Delhi on Saturday by her Indian counterpart.

On her arrival at the Rashtrapati Bhawan around 9:15am (local time) escorted by a horse-mounting team of President's Body Guards, Hasina was received by Modi there.

Then the Bangladesh prime minister was given a guard of honour by a smartly turned out contingent of the three wings of the Indian defence services.

Before that Hasina was escorted to the dais set for her to give the guard of honour to her. Then the national anthem of Bangladesh was first played followed by the national anthem of India.

Hasina also inspected the smartly turned out contingent of the three wings of the Indian defence services.

Later, Indian prime minister Narendra Modi introduced his cabinet colleagues to Sheikh Hasina at the introducing line. Hasina also introduced his entourage, including cabinet colleagues and other high officials, to Modi.

Then both the leaders waived hands and posed for a photo session.

Later, Hasina went to Rajghat and showered petals at the Samadhi of Mahatma Gandhi, the Indian father of the nation.

She also signed a visitors' book there.

On Friday, Sheikh Hasina reached the Air Force Station Palam of New Delhi in the afternoon. Modi received her at the station.

Indian external affairs ministry, in a tweet, described Modi’s presence to receive Hasina as ‘a special gesture for a special friend.’

In another tweet, Modi said he was ‘delighted to welcome’ the Bangladesh PM. ‘PM Sheikh Hasina and I are determined to take the relationship between our nations to a new level,’ reads the message on the social media.

India’s external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj called on Bangladesh PM at the President’s House.

Hasina would call on Indian president Pranab Mukherjee on Sunday. Indian National Congress president Sonia Gandhi and external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj would call on the Bangladesh prime minister.

Sheikh Hasina was staying at the President’s House during the visit at the invitation of Pranab Mukherjee. She joined a reception at the Bangladesh high commissioner’s residence at New Delhi diplomatic enclave.

The Bangladesh prime minister was leading a 40-member official delegation, including foreign minister AH Mahmood Ali, law minister Anisul Huq, water resources minister Anisul Islam Mahmud, liberation war affairs minister AKM Mozammel Haque, prime minister’s adviser Moshiur Rahman, state minister for foreign affairs M Shahriar Alam and foreign secretary M Shahidul Haque.

Hasina and select members of the delegation would travel to Ajmer in Rajsthan to pray at the shrine of Khawja Moinuddin Chishti on April 9. She would address a business conclave in New Delhi on April 10.

Over 200 businesspersons and a 60-member support team, including a pool of security personnel, would be in India during the visit.

Sheikh Hasina would return home on Monday.