None
Ceramics goods makers seek VAT law change for local industry protection
Bangladesh Ceramics Wares Manufacturers’ Association on Monday demanded an increase of supplementary duty on import of ceramics items through amendment of the new Value-Added Tax law to protect the local industry from uneven competition with imported goods.

The National Board of Revenue should increase supplementary duty to 60 per cent on import of ceramics items including tiles, table wares and sanitary wares in the new VAT and Supplementary Duty Act-2012 in which the rate of SD was reduced to 45 per cent.

Local industry will face a stiff competition with imported ceramics goods after the implementation of the new law from July 1 as the revenue board will reduce the SD on import and increase the duty on local production, BCWMA president Shirajul Islam Mollah said at a pre-budget discussion with the revenue board.

In the new VAT law, SD on the locally produced ceramics wares has been increased to 45 per cent from 15 per cent.

The new VAT law will affect the local industry in both ways, he said.

In addition, under-invoicing has become the major concern for the sector as some unscrupulous traders are selling the imported products at local market at much less price than the cost of production, he added.

‘Price of locally produced ceramics items will increase by 36 per cent compared with that of imported goods due to the change in the SD structure,’ he said, adding that importers will also get on an average 9 per cent duty benefit.

In this context, there is no way without amending the VAT law to protect the local industry in which more than 5 lakh people are directly and indirectly involved, he said.

The BCWMA also demanded withdrawal of 15 per cent SD on production of local tiles and withdrawal of all types of customs duty on import of raw materials required for manufacturing of ceramics items.

It also sought an increase of minimum import value of the products to prevent under-invoicing.

The association secretary general Irfan Uddin said that there were currently 56 factories in the country and the sector experienced 200 per cent growth over the last five years.

The association senior vice-president Moynul Islam, also vice-chairman of Monno Ceramics Industries Ltd, said the sector needed government support to grow further.

At the meeting, Bangladesh Beverage Manufacturers president Sheikh Shamim Uddin demanded reduction of supplementary duty on production of soft drinks to 15 per cent from existing 25 per cent.

He said that reduction of SD would boost the local industry.

More than 90 per cent of the domestic demand is now met by the local producers while nine big companies are planning to make investment worth Tk 4,000 crore in next six years, he added.

At the meeting, NBR chairman Md Nojibur Rahman said that they would examine the proposal and urged the businesses to pay the tax properly.

He also requested the businesses to pay back the tax benefit getting from the government in the form of exemption to the economy and to the welfare of people.

Tax benefit to the businesses is one kind of gift of the NBR to the economy and society, he said.

NBR chief said that the NBR would assess and disclose the data of tax expenditure which is given to businesses and different sectors in the form of tax exemption to support the industrial growth of the country.

The tax authority is collecting data as there is currently no statistics on the volume of tax expenditure.

NBR members Jahangir Hossain and Parvez Iqbal, among others, spoke at the meeting while deputy commissioners of taxes Nafisa Noor made a presentation on tax expenditure.

More about: