None
Dhaka stocks drop for 5th day
Dhaka stocks declined for the fifth trading session on Tuesday due to many investors’ jitteriness regarding the market prospect in the context of prime minister Sheikh Hasina’s India visit.

The key index of Dhaka Stock Exchange, DSEX, closed at 5,683.46 points, shedding 0.10 per cent or 6.20 points.

The DSEX lost 94 points in the last five trading sessions.

The market started positive with 34 points within first half-an-hour of the trading session amid a section of investors’ bargain hunting and a state-owned-entity’s increased share purchasing to keep the market afloat, stockbrokers said.

The market, however, started to lose ground afterwards amid investors’ heavy sales of shares, resulting in negative ending for another trading session, they said.

Investors already booked profit following the recent rally, and opted to wait further to assess the country’s benefits following the signing of 22 agreements and memorandum of understanding between Bangladesh and India during Sheikh Hasian’s India visit.

Asked if there is any relationship between PM’s India visit and the market fall, United International University School of Business and Economics department dean Mohammad Musa said, ‘There could be a relation as our investors’ sentiment changes with the change of political climate.’

‘Based on recent media reports and BNP’s different statements regarding prime minister’s India visit, investors might have assumed that the political climate has deteriorated in recent times resulting in an increased share sales,’ he said.

Besides, the price adjustment by BRAC Bank after its record date on Monday played a vital role to push the market down as it was the worst loser of the day, shedding 19 per cent.

Sales pressure on sector specific large-cap issues, especially on banks, financial institutions and pharmaceutical sectors, dragged the market down for another session.

The bank sector suffered significantly for another trading session due to mixed dividend declarations by a number of banks that resulted in a 0.2 per cent decline in banks’ share prices while pharma and financial institutions decline by 0.3 per cent each on Tuesday.

On the other hand, small capitalised scrips got buyers’ attention as paper, jute and textile rose by 5.00 per cent, 1.7 per cent and 1.3 per cent respectively.

The turnover of the bourse rose slightly to Tk 7826.23 crore on Tuesday compared with that of Tk 722.74 crore in the previous session.

Out of traded 327 companies and mutual funds, 142 advanced, 138 declined and 45 remained unchanged.

DS30, the blue-chip index of DSE, fell by 0.41 per cent or 8.76 points, to close at 2107.69 points.

The Shariah index, DSES, finished at 1300.40 points, shedding 0.11 per cent or 1.5 points.

LankaBangla Finance led the turnover chart on the day with its shares worth Tk 44.55 crore changing hands.

Brac Bank, IDLC Finance, City Bank, Evince Textiles, Tung Hai Knitting, Beximco Pharmaceuticals, Bangladesh Export Import Company, Prime Bank and IFIC Bank were other turnover leaders.

Fareast Finance and Investment gained the most, adding 12.61 per cent, while Brac Bank was the worst loser of the day, shedding 18.93 per cent.

More about: