None
IDB to sell off majority of its stakes in Islami Bank
The photo shows a general view of the Moghbazar Branch of Islami Bank Bangladesh in Dhaka on Wednesday. The Islamic Development Bank has taken a decision to sell off majority of its stake in Islami Bank Bangladesh at market price through stock exchange. — New Age photo

The Islamic Development Bank has taken a decision to sell off majority of its stake in Islami Bank Bangladesh Ltd at market price through stock exchange.

The Saudi Arabia-based IDB has recently submitted a proposal before the board of directors to sell off its majority stakes as the government has recently conducted massive restructuring in the IBBL’s board and management, said officials of the bank.

Areef Suleman, IDB representative of IBBL, formally placed the proposal at the bank’s board meeting held on March 30 when other directors of the bank requested him not to sell the share.

According to the IBBL data, IDB is now holding 12.78 crore share worth around Tk 400 crore considering the existing market price.

The foreign shareholders are now controlling 52.16 per cent stake in the bank of which IDB is holding 7.5 per cent share of the IBBL.

IDB in its proposal informed the board of IBBL that it would want to hold 2.1 per cent share after selling the remaining stake, meaning that the lender agency would sell its around 72 per cent share of the bank.

IDB will hold the minimum shares in IBBL to maintain one director with the bank’s board, an official of the bank said.

IDB will be allowed to sell the share after receiving the permission from Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission.

IDB earlier expressed concern at the recent changes that took place at IBBL without the consent of the foreign shareholders.

In a letter to Finance Minister AMA Muhith, the Saudi Arabia-based lender said the foreign shareholders, who own more than 52 per cent of shares at IBBL, feel that the governance of the bank has been taken away from the foreign shareholders and given to the local shareholders and independent directors.

This recent high-level change at IBBL is yet another example of important decisions being taken without due knowledge or consent of the foreign shareholders, IDB President Bandar MH Hajjar wrote on January 24.

Along with IDB, Saudi Arabia-based Al Rajhi Group and Arabsas Travel and Tourism Agency, Kuwait-based Public Institution for Social Security, Kuwait Finance House, The Public Authority for Minors Affairs and Kuwait Awqaf Public Foundation are also now holding shares in IBBL.

IBBL chairman Arastoo Khan told New Age on Wednesday that IDB had recently applied to the board of IBBL to sell off some of its shares, but it would hold sufficient shares to maintain its directorship.

He claimed that IDB usually made large investment when a new Islamic bank starts its banking operation.

The lender organisation makes the large investment in a Shariah-based bank as part of its policy and later IDB withdraws the investment after establishing the bank, he said.

It is a normal process of IDB and they will shift investment to another new Islamic bank, he said.

IBBL vice-chairman Syed Ahsanul Alam, however, told New Age that IDB had taken decision in line with its risk management policy.

IDB is going to sell its shares not only in Bangladesh but also some other Islamic banks in two to three countries.

He explained that IDB had taken the move due to recent fluctuating of IBBL’s share price.

Share price of IBBL increased to Tk 47.80 on January 26, 2017 from Tk 29 on December 22, 2016. The share price of the bank stood at 32.60 on Wednesday.

Former interim administration finance adviser AB Mirza Azizul Islam told New Age on Wednesday that the government should not have restructured the IBBL’s board and management without informing IDB.

He, however, said that IDB’s decision would not put much negative impact on IBBL as the lender agency will hold sufficient shares to maintain its directorship.

The immediate past chairman of IBBL’s board Mustafa Anwar last week also announced that he would sell off 95 per cent of his stakes in the bank.

Anwar was replaced by Arastoo Khan on January 5 this year as per the directive of the government, which wanted to reduce the influence of people from Jamaat-e-Islam Bangladesh over the bank.

The then managing director Abdul Mannan was also replaced on the same day with Md Abdul Hamid Miah, who was serving as the Union Bank managing director, as per the government’s year-long move to oust Jamaat-backed stakeholders from the bank.

Recent media reports said that a number of companies backed by the Chittagong-based S Alam Group had already bought a significant number of shares of the IBBL as per the government’s wish.



