None
BNP expects ‘something extraordinary’ from Xi’s visit
Welcoming Chinese president Xi Jinping’s visit to Bangladesh, Bangladesh Nationalist Party on Thursday hoped it will produce positive outcomes for the country protecting mutual interests of the two friendly nations.



‘We expect something extraordinary for the country from this tour. We should keep in mind that other countries in the world better understand their won interests than us. We want cooperation deals

with all countries protecting mutual interests,’ said BNP senior leader Gayeshwar Chandra Roy.



He came up with the remarks while exchanging greetings with journalists at a city hotel, marking Durga Puja.



The Chinese president is scheduled to arrive here on Friday morning on a 22-hour state visit. The visit is taking place three decades after Chinese president Li Xiannian visited Bangladesh in March 1986.



Xi Jinping will have significant talks with president Abdul Hamid and prime minister Sheikh Hasina and important deals on a number of mega projects involving several billion dollars are likely to be signed

during the visit.



Gayeshwar, a BNP standing committee member, said Bangladesh has long been maintaining good relations with China. ‘The country’s ties with China will ever be good, no matter which government remains in power.’



Sought their party’s reaction to some deals relating to infrastructural development of the country to be signed during the Chinese president’s visit, he said neither media nor BNP is aware of the agreements as the government did not disclose those.



‘We welcome his tour, but don’t know with which offers the Chinese president is coming or what our country is seeking from him. We’re completely in the dark, but we hope it’ll bring good for the county,’

the BNP leader added.



He said their party expects that China, as a development partner, will extend its further cooperation for Bangladesh’s overall progress, including industrial development.



Gayeshwar urged the government to think which issues are feasible for the country so that no agreement can impose burden on people. ‘The agreements should be mutually useful for the two nations.’

More about: