None
One in three can’t say when Independence Day is celebrated
A recent sample survey shows that one in three citizens does not know when Bangladesh celebrates its Independence Day.

One in four could not say when the nation celebrates its Victory Day, revealed the sample survey conducted by Planning Commission’s Implementation Monitoring Evaluation Division in June.

Six in 10 did not know that on December 14, 1971, on the eve of victory in the War of Independence scores of Bangali intellectuals were murdered by the occupation army of Pakistan and its notorious auxiliary forces known as the Al-Badr Bahini and the Al-Shams Bahini.

Four in ten could not say that on the ominous night of March 25, 1971, the occupation army of Pakistan committed systematic genocide on Bangalis.

The survey report says that only one per cent remembers the names of all the seven freedom fighters who died in action and were decorated with Bir Shreshtha, the highest gallantry award.

It reveals that 54 per cent of the people does not know even a single Bir Shreshtha recipient’s name.

In June, IMED completed its impact evaluation report on the project for the construction of memorials and preservation of 35 killing fields of the occupation army of Pakistan.

It’s shocking that so many people could not say when the nation observes Independence Day, Victory Day and what happened on Martyred Intellectuals’ Day, said eminent citizens and historians.

Asked why people don’t remember events of historic importance to the nation, they told New Age that there must be something wrong with education system and the textbooks.

They said that the school textbooks should provide detailed accounts of the country’s liberation struggle to keep the memory of the War of Independence alive.

The society and the families have to play their due roles to kindle the spirit of the Liberation War among citizens, they said.

This is simply unbelievable that so many people could not say when the nation celebrates Independence Day and the Victory Day, said professor emeritus Serajul Islam Choudhury.

He said that Liberation War is a neglected issue in the textbooks for school and college students.

He said that this was bound to happen in any society that does not value the study of history.

Memorials on 35 killing fields were constructed by the government between 2002 and 2008 to keep the memory of the War of Independence alive and rekindle its spirit among the people.

For the sample survey, the Planning Commission interviewed 576 citizens in the 16 –60 age group who reside within a two-km radius of he 12 killing fields in the capital, Habiganj, Barisal, Kishoreganj, Comilla, Nilphamary, Jessore, Faridpur, Natore, Bogra, Sherpur and Gaibandha.

According to the impact evaluation report 87 per cent of the interviewees had completed at least primary school education.

Many of the interviewees were graduates and Masters degree holders, said planning commission officials.

Six per cent of the interviewees did not reply to the question on which day Bangladesh celebrates its Independence Day.

At least 10 per cent of the respondents said Bangladesh celebrates its Independence Day on December 16, six per cent mentioned it as February 21.

Only 44 per cent of the respondents gave the correct answer.

At least 24 per cent of the respondents said that they don’t know when Bangladesh celebrates its Victory Day, four per cent identified it as February 21, to three per cent it was March 26.

The correct answer was given by 69 per cent of the respondents.

Dhaka University history professor Syed Anwar Husain said that he came across many people who could not say when the nation celebrates its Victory and Independence Day.

He said that both the topics were absent from the textbooks.

He said that the history of the nation’s Liberation War was distorted right from it was over especially after 1975.

National Curriculum Textbook Board chairman Narayan Chandra Saha disagreed with the observation that the Liberation War was a neglected topic in the textbooks.

NCTB would, he said, take appropriate action after seeing the Planning Commission report.