None
Govt ignores 95pc people to face extremism: BNP
Bangladesh Nationalist Party holds a press conference at its central office at Naya Paltan in Dhaka on Monday. — Focusbangla photo

Bangladesh Nationalist Party vice-chairman Shamsuzzaman Dudu, who now acts as the party’s spokesman, on Monday said ‘five percent’ people- supported incumbent government is ignoring cooperation of 95 per cent people to combat extremism in the country.

He came up with the remarks responding to a question at a news briefing at BNP central office.

Dudu said BNP chairperson Khaleda Zia called for national unity to strongly face terrorism and worked whatever necessary to this end.

He said they tried to combine ‘95 percent with five percent’ to face extremism.

But the government opted confining it within five percent, he said.

Asked why the BNP BNP did not come up with new programme after forming its new central committee, Dudu said the BNP is now engaged in programme for reorgansing the party.

Reading out a written statement Dudu said the ‘unethical’ government has been unleashing ‘indescribable’ steamroller of repression on leaders and activists of opposition across the country to perpetuate its ‘immoral’ power.

He alleged that the law enforcers now has made it norm to send jail if anyone implicated in ‘false’ case appeared before court for seeking bail.

The present government is following the heinous path of making the country ‘devoid of opposition’ to depoliticise the country in style of the illegal government of ‘January 11’, he said.

For this reason the government has targeted the national leaders including BNP’s senior joint secretary general Ruhul Kabir Rizvi.

He demanded immediate unconditional release of Rizvi for his good treatment withdrawing false and fabricated cases against him.

He said the government is hatching deep conspiracy to eliminate BNP unleashing repression on its leaders and activists across the country but crores of followers of the party would not allow making it success.

He also demanded unconditional release of BNP joint secretary general Habin-un-Nabi Khan Sohel.

BNP leaders Ahmed Azam Khan, Moazzem Hossain Alal, Khairul Kabir Khokon, Abdus Salam Azad and Monir Hossain among others were present.