None
Tofail to seek cash incentive for motorcycle exporters
Commerce minister Tofail Ahmed on Saturday said that he would recommend to the finance ministry that it should give cash incentive against export of motorcycles from the next financial year so that exporters of two wheelers in the country could flourish.

Bangladesh has started a glorious journey in its industrialisation by stepping into the global market through exporting motorcycles, Tofail said while inaugurating the export of motorcycles by local manufacturer Runner Automobiles Limited to Nepal at a ceremony at the company’s factory premises at Bhaluka in Mymensingh.

On Saturday, Runner Automobiles exported 250 motorcycles to Nepal.

Runner Automobiles chairman Hafizur Rahman Khan, vice-chairman Md Mozammel Hossain, managing director Mukesh Sharma, Nepal’s Matrix Moto Corp Pvt Ltd chairman Dilip Kumar Karma, and Nepal embassy charge de affairs Dhan Bahadur Oli were present, among others, at the inaugural ceremony of the company’s motorbike export.

Tofail said that through the launch of export of motorbikes manufactured by Runner Automobiles, the country had taken a place among the leading high-tech nations.

The government will provide all-out support to the exporters of non-traditional items like motorcycles with the aim of diversifying its export basket, the commerce minister said.

Hafizur Rahman Khan apprised the minister of the production capacity of Runner Automobiles as well as export-related information.

The factory of Runner Automobiles at present has a capacity of manufacturing 500 motorcycles a day and the company management has taken an initiative to raise the capacity to 1,000 a day by the year 2018, Hafizur said.

Runner Automobiles would launch marketing of high-end US technology-based UM motorcycles this year, he said adding that the country’s export basket was widened with the launch of export of motorbikes to Nepal.

The country would be able to dominate the global motorcycle market in the near future if proper and sustainable policy support is provided by the government, he added.

More about: