None
BIDA seeks Tk 100cr for fund to help new investors
The newly established Bangladesh Investment Development Authority has sought Tk 100 crore from the ministry of finance to create an equity fund of Tk 110 crore, officials have said.

BIDA sought the fund in a letter sent on September 27 to the ministry of finance after it had started operation on September 1 following amalgamation of the Board of Investment and the Privatisation Commission.

Its executive chairman Kazi Md Aminul Islam said that the proposed fund would be utilised for giving financial assistances to new investors having no collaterals for getting loans from banks.

Besides, the fund would also be used to train the new entrepreneurs, he said.

He said BIDA would contribute Tk 10 crore to the proposed equity fund and the rest was expected to come from budgetary allocation.

Officials have said that the proposal of BIDA is now under review by the budget wing of the ministry of finance.

They said the collateral-free loan programme is being operated jointly by the Bangladesh Bank and the Investment Corporation of Bangladesh to create new entrepreneurs for the past 12 years.

The recovery rate of the loan to the tune of Tk 528 crore given so far from the Equity and Entrepreneurship Fund was not good, they observed.

The BIDA officials have said the country badly needs creation of new entrepreneurs to achieve the investment target set in the current five-year plan by the Planning Commission.

Implementation of the current five-year plan to be completed in 2020 envisaged taking the present investment rate of 22.93 per cent of Gross Domestic Product to 34 per cent, they say.

They pointed that it would be difficult to obtain the investment target by the contribution of the existing investors and without creation of new entrepreneurs.

They said BIDA already chalked out elaborate progremmes to train and provide financial assistance to the prospective new entrepreneurs with the help of BRAC and Daffodil universities.

It would introduce an inter-ministerial ‘one stop service centre’ to ensure quick service delivery to the local and foreign investors.

Earlier, the government took the initiative of establishing the single entity for promoting investment after realising that both the BoI and Privatisation Commission performed almost the same functions.

More about: