None
Show respect to each other while performing religious rituals: PM
Prime minister Sheikh Hasina visist Dakeshwari temple on the occasion of Durga Puja on Saturday.-- Focusbangla photo

Reiterating her government’s tough stance against militancy and terrorist activities in the name of religion, prime minister Sheikh Hasina urged all on Saturday to show respect to each other while performing their respective religious rituals.

‘Human welfare is the essence of all religions. So all will perform their religious rituals and other activities with dignity and everyone will show respect to others,’ she said.

The prime minister said this while visiting Dhakeswari Mandir on the occasion of Durga Puja, the largest festival of the Hindu community.

‘We won’t tolerate any terrorist activities in the name of religion…Islam is a religion of peace, harmony and brotherhood,’ she said.

Sheikh Hasina said those who are committing terrorist activities in the name of religion are actually doing anti-religion deeds. ‘We’ve taken stern actions against militancy and terrorism, and will do the same in the coming days,’ she said adding that there will be no place for militancy in Bangladesh.

The prime minister also said the government wants peace, prosperity and development, not conflict. ‘We want development in such a way so that everybody, including rural people, gets the benefits of development, irrespective of religion and cast.’

She also mentioned that Bangladesh believes in the peaceful coexistence of all people. ‘And all religions talk about compassion and tolerance.’

During the Liberation War, Hasina said, the people of all faiths had made their supreme sacrifice and fought for the country’s independence under Bangabandhu’s leadership. ‘We want people to live in peace; we want the triumph of humanity… that’s our desire,’ she said.

Hasina said Bangabandhu had dreamt of establishing a poverty- and hunger-free Sonar Bangla. ‘We’re striving to achieve the goal and the country advanced much in this regard.’

Mohanagar Sarbajanin Puja Committee president DM Chaterjee, Dhaka South City Corporation Mayor Mohammad Syed Khokan, Bangladesh Puja Udjapan Parishad general secretary Advocate Tapash Kumar Pal and Mohanagar Sarbajanin Puja Committee general secretary Advocate Shyamal Kumar Roy, among others, spoke at the programme.