None
Steps for ease of doing business to start this month: BIDA chief
The government will finalise the activities of easing the doing business at the end of the month for taking the Bangladesh’s rank in double digit in the World Bank’s Global Doing Business Report by 2021.

‘We will finalise activities of the ministries and agencies at the end of this month and the implementation will begin from February,’ said Bangladesh Investment Development Authority executive chairman Kazi M Aminul Islam.

He said this at a press conference at a hotel in the city after a daylong meeting with different ministries and agencies to know the taking plans for implementing the programme within stipulated time.

The BIDA chief said the government has set a plan to bring down the country’s position in doing business ranking to below 100 from the existing 176 within five-year through reforming the rules and regulations of doing business.

Prime Minister’s Office principal coordinator of SDG Affairs Abul Kalam Azad and National Board of Revenue chairman Nojibur Rahman, among others, attended the press conference.

Azad said the ministries and agencies are on right track to make true the programme for taking rank in double digit by 2021.

He said the government has undertaken initiatives, including establishing 100 economic zones and hi-tech parks, to accelerate investment in the country.

The government is also keeping eyes to make easy the process of doing business through taking necessary measures for lowering the permission time, proving low cost loan facility, developing employees skilled and easing the transport and export process, he added.

The ease of doing business index is an index created by the World Bank Group. The index is based on the average of 10 sub-indices - starting a business, dealing with construction permits, getting electricity, registering property, getting credit, protecting investors, paying taxes, trading across borders, enforcing contracts and resolving insolvency.

Bangladesh has advanced two notches to 176th, among 189 countries, from the revised 178th position of Doing Business-2017 of the World Bank Group.

More about: