None
Residents in parts of Dhaka city face acute water crisis
Residents in some parts of Dhaka city have been facing acute shortage of water as the Dhaka Water Supply and Sewerage Authority failed to provide adequate water through its supply network.

Many of the residents of Badda, Basabo, Madartek, Khilkhet, Meradia, Mughdapara, Bakshibazar, Azimpur and Old Dhaka complained that the water shortage was seriously affecting their daily life as they were struggling to collect water from alternative sources for every day use.

Local councilors, mostly from Dhaka South City Corporation, also said that they received complaints from the inhabitants that the water supplied by DWASA contained dirt and foul smell.

Deputy managing director of DWASA, Mahmud Hossain, while admitting the water crisis in southern part of Dhaka, said that the authorities concerned already directed the zonal offices to repair supply lines and provide water to the consumers through DWASA water tankers.

Md Golam Hossain, councilor of ward-4 under DSCC complained the residents in Basabo and Madartek had been facing acute shortage of water since for the last two weeks.

The authorities concerned were informed about the crisis initially but still no initiative was taken to mitigate the problem, he regretted.

Abdul Mannan, a resident at Madartek, who is also general secretary of a local mosque management committee, said the affected people were collecting water from the mosque linked to supply lines with adequate water pressure.

The local people recently invested Tk 2,150 each for relocating their household water supply lines and installing a water pump to extract water for their household from the mosque’s reservoir, Mannan said.

But the system could be still inefficient as it could provide water only for 40 minutes a day to individual household and often the house owner would need to be awake till midnight to collect the water, he regretted.

College teacher Giasuddin Nipu, a resident of Natun Paltan, Azimpur, complained that water supply in the area was available only for 20 minutes each day at 7am, 12 noon and 6pm.

Sifat E Rabbi, owner of a house with six flats in Mohammadpur, said that since the last week, she had to collect water from DWASA tanker paying Tk 600 each day.

Tariqul Islam Sajib, councilor of ward-12, said that residents of his area were facing water crisis as the supply water they got periodically for a day emitted bad ordour.

Councilor of ward-3 under DSCC, Maksud Hossain, complained that the supply water in his area was often unusable, even for bathing.

Sheikh Ashiqur Rahman, a resident of South Basabo, said he collected 20-liter drinking water jars worth Tk 40 each from vendors for the last 10 days.

Water and sanitation expert Mizanur Rahman, also a geography and environment teacher at Jahangirnagar University, observed that consumers of DWASA did not get water throughout the day.

More about: