None
Tanners demonstrate; seek utility connections at Savar
Chamra Shilpa Rakkha Oikya Parishad holds a rally at Hazaribagh on Monday.-- Ali Hossain Mintu

The owners and workers of Hazaribagh tanneries on Monday staged demonstration in the city demanding utility connections to their industrial units at Savar Tannery Estate within 15 days complying with the apex court order.

‘If gas, power and electricity connections are installed within the given time at Savar Tannery Estate, we'll come up with a fresh programme to lay a siege to BSCIC (Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation),’ said Chairman of Bangladesh Tanners' Association Shaheen Ahmed addressing the demonstration.

The demonstration was staged at Hazaribagh under the banner of 'Chamra Shilpa Rakkha Oikya Parishad', a newly formed platform to 'protect' the leather industry.

On Sunday last, the Supreme Court asked the authorities concerned to provide gas, power and water connections to the tanneries who already applied to have that to their factories at Savar within 15 days.

Addressing the programme, President of the Bangladesh Finished Leather, Leather Goods and Footwear Exporters Association Mohiuddin Ahmed Mahin said, ‘If the authorities concerned fail to provide utility connections within the two weeks, they should reinstall the utility services at Hazaribagh tanneries for the sake of protecting the leather sector.’

The newly-formed platform placed a nine-point demand and announced fresh programmes to meet their demands.

They also demanded to ensure international standard of Central Effluent Treatment Plan (CETP), set up chrome recovery unit and dumping yard at the designated leather estate soon.

Besides, they demanded the government pay compensation for possible cancellation of export orders, and provide a block allocation for the owners to pay salaries and wages of workers for the interim period.

Their other demands include completing the registration of ownership deads of plots at the tannery estate soon following the MoU signed in 2003, providing plots for the accommodation of tannery workers and the tanners who did not get plots earlier, as well as blocking the owners' bank loans and waiving their loan interest.

The tannery owners and workers will bring out a silent procession with black flags at Hazaribagh on Wednesday next (April 12) and exchange views with leaders of all the associations related to leather sector on April 15.

BTA general secretary Shakawat Ullah, Tannery Workers Union president Abdul Kalam Azad and its general secretary Abdul Maleque, among others, spoke on the occasion.

In compliance with a High Court order, the Department of Environment (DoE) on Saturday last disconnected utility services — electricity, gas and water — to some 224 tanneries at Hazaribagh.

Earlier on March 6, the High Court directed the government to immediately shut down the Hazaribagh tanneries and disconnect all of their utility services as they missed several deadlines to relocate their factories to the Savar Tannery Estate.