None
Teesta deal failure dampens visit, say politicians, experts
Politicians and experts have observed that failure to sign the Teesta River water sharing deal has dampened prime minister Sheikh Hasina’s visit to New Delhi although Bangladesh and India have signed three dozens of deals and memorandums of understanding, including one on defence cooperation.

India even has not given any deadline for the signing of the deal as pressed by Bangladesh and has just once again assured of solving the problem the country has been facing for more than five decades, they said while talking to New Age on Sunday.

Bangladesh signed three defence sector pacts on various aspects of defence cooperation under the memorandum reportedly because of intense pressure from India that began from November 2016 after Bangladesh Navy received two submarines from China.

Dhaka agreed to elevate relationship with Beijing from a ‘comprehensive partnership of cooperation’ to a ‘strategic partnership.’ during Chinese President Xi Jinping’s visit to Bangladesh in October 2016 that concerned Delhi, experts said.

Bangladesher Samajtantrik Dal general secretary

Khalequzzaman said that Bangladesh responded positively to the Indian demand for the memorandum on defence cooperation, but the country’s demand for the Teesta water sharing deal remained unresolved.

He said that Hasina’s Delhi visit was a setback for the country’s foreign policy and frustrating for the people.

Communist Party of Bangladesh president Mujahidul Islam Selim said that they had cleared the party’s position earlier signing of defence cooperation deal without Teesta water sharing agreement would be ‘undesirable.’

Workers Party of Bangladesh president Rashed Khan Menon said that he was not sure whether Bangladesh signed any memorandum on defence cooperation with India.

He, however, said that nothing happened extraordinary on the Teesta River water sharing because of resistance from West Bengal.

Jatiya Party co-chairman GM Quader said that people were frustrated finding no breakthrough on Teesta.

‘Naturally, expectation about a fruitful solution on Teesta was running high,’ he said.

Former foreign secretary Hemayetuddin said that the tour could have been a very ‘acceptable’ from the point of view of Bangladesh had India paved the way for signing the deal on the Teesta River.

As the Teesta water sharing was not signed, India benefitted from the long list of deals and memorandums especially the memorandum on defence cooperation, said retired brigadier general Shakhawat Hossain.

India agreed to give supplier’s credit of $4.5 billion for implementation of priority projects in Bangladesh in addition to $500 million tied loan for purchasing defence equipment.

Shakhawat said that the defence cooperation agreement was demanded by India.

He noted that the memorandum on defence cooperation would enable India to cement its position in Bangladesh.

It is clear that India would try to utilise the memorandum to keep Chinese influence on the country’s defence forces away, he added.

Hemayetuddin, however, said that he did not see any major problem with the memorandum the way it was described by the officials of both the countries.

‘There is no binding issue in the memorandum on defence cooperation,’ he said, adding that the same thing had been said about the $500 million loan India would provide to sell its defence equipment to Bangladesh.

Shakhawat questioned what would India sell to Bangladesh when they were the biggest importer of arms and ammunitions.

Bangladesh is one of the major importers of Chinese and Russian defence equipment and hardly used to Indian defence hardware, he said.

India spent over $120 billion on arms acquisitions over the past 15 years until 2015.

India accounts for 14 per cent of the global imports in 2011-2015 which indicates New Delhi’s enduring failure to build a strong domestic defence-industrial base, the experts said.

More about: