None
Teesta remains elusive, but Hasina satisfied with possibility to import power
Prime minister Sheikh Hasina on Monday expressed her satisfaction over the assurance and commitment made by her Indian counterpart Narendra Modi for early resolution of the Teesta water sharing dispute between the two countries.

She also expressed her satisfaction over getting ‘something’ by creating provisions for importing power from India although resolution of Teesta water sharing dispute remained elusive.

‘I talked to Didimoni (Mamata Banerjee) too. (We) sought water, but got electricity. At least something good has happened, we got something,’ Sheikh Hasina said going beyond her written statement delivered at a reception hosted by India Foundation, a think-tank of India’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in New Delhi.

Sheikh Hasina spoke to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on the sidelines of at least three functions during her four-day visit to India.

The prime minister, in her written statement, said common water resources must be used as uniting force between the two countries. A

comprehensive, basin-wise solution to water sharing of all the common rivers holds the key to common future of Bangladesh and India.

On Teesta issue, she said, PM Modi once again reiterated his government’s ‘strong resolve’ to conclude a water sharing treaty at the earliest.

‘Once it happens’, Hasina said, ‘the Indo-Bangladesh relation would undergo another transformation.

She also expressed her satisfaction over amicable settlement of land and maritime boundaries between the two countries.

BJP’s advisory group chairman and former deputy prime minister LK Advani also spoke at the function.

In his public statement on Saturday Modi had said, ‘I assure you and the people of Bangladesh of our commitment and continuing efforts. I firmly believe that it is only my government and excellency Sheikh Hasina, your government, that can and will find an early solution to Teesta water sharing.’

The two next door neighbours, however, could not sign an interim agreement confirming amicable settlement of the dispute.

At another programme organised for the business communities of the two countries, Sheikh Hasina, also ruling Awami League president, criticised the persons and political parties propagating that the government sold the country by signing agreements with India.

‘Those who are saying that the country has been sold by signing agreements with India are actually “insane” ... whatever agreements we signed with India are for overall welfare and development of the people and the region,’ she said.

Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry jointly arranged the programme.

Sheikh Hasina also urged the Indian entrepreneurs to bring their businesses and investments to Bangladesh to improve the life and livelihood of the people of the region.

Indian petroleum and natural gas minister Darmendra Pradhan, Association of Chambers of India president Swandeep Jaiodia and former chairman Adi Godrej, ex-president of Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Harsh Mariwala and FBCCI president Abdul Matlub Ahmed also spoke at the function.

Sheikh Hasina arrived in India on April 7 and returned home on Monday.

Some 22 agreements and memorandums of understanding, among other documents, were signed between the government agencies and 15 deals among government and business groups of the two countries were signed during Hasina’s visit to India.

More about: