None
Rights groups demand action plan
Human Rights Forum Bangladesh holds a press conference at National Press Club in Dhaka on Monday, presenting concluding observation of UN Human Rights Committee on ensuring citizen and political rights. — New Age photo

Rights and civic groups on Monday demanded that the government should prepare an action plan to implement the United Nations Human Rights Committee’s concluding observation on the initial report of Bangladesh in its 119th session.

Human Rights Forum Bangladesh, a platform of 19 human rights and civic groups, made the demand at a press conference at the National Press Club in Dhaka.

The UN Human Rights Committee in its 119th session held dialogue with the law minister, National Human Rights Commission representative and right activists in March 6-7, based on their reports, to evaluate Bangladesh’s progress on International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and published its observation on March 29.

Reading out the written statement at the press conference, forum coordinator Tamanna Haque Riti said that the country’s rights defenders demanded expeditious implementation of the observations.

Bangladesh ratified the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in 2000 but the initial report was submitted by the government to the committee in June 2015, she said, adding that the initial report was supposed to be submitted in one year of ratification..

In its recommendations, the UN Human Rights Committee urged the government not to use counter-terrorism measures to restrict freedom of expression and opinion of journalists and human rights defenders.

‘The State party should broaden the mandate of the NHRC and allow it to investigate all alleged human rights violations, including those committed by state military and security actors. The state party should also provide the NHRC with sufficient financial and human resources to allow it to impartially and independently fulfil its mandate in line with the Paris Principles,’ it recommended.

It also recommended criminalisation of enforced disappearance and investigation into every incident of enforced disappearance and proper enforcement of the Torture and Custodial Death (Prevention) Act 2013.

It also asked the government to revise legislations to limit the use of force by law enforcement officials, the military and special forces conforming with international standards.

It also urged the government to investigate all cases of arbitrary killings, enforced disappearances and excessive use of force, prosecute and if convicted punish the perpetrators with appropriate sentences, and compensate the victims.

Addressing the press conference, Ain o Salish Kendra executive director Sheepa Hafiza urged the government to discuss with the human rights activists and civil society to formulate a time-bound action plan.

Bangladesh Legal Aid and Services Trust honorary executive director Sara Hossain, Steps Towards Development executive director Ranjan Karmakar and Nagorik Uddyog leader Zakir Hossain also spoke.