None
Six per cent of food wasted: study
Right to Food Bangladesh and Christian Aid jointly launch a study on ‘Responsible Food Habit: Role of Individual and the State’ at a seminar in the capital on Wednesday. — New Age photo

Waste accounts for 5.5 per cent of the total food meant for consumption in Bangladesh, finds a study.

Of the total wastage, 3 per cent is wasted while being collected and transported, 1.4 per cent before and while being cooked and the rest is wasted as leftover, it says.

‘Food waste is a major challenge faced by the government in ensuring food security,’ said Nazneen Ahmed, senior research fellow of Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies.

She was presenting the key findings from the study ‘Responsible Food Habit: Role of Individual and the State’ at a seminar jointly organised by Right to Food Bangladesh and Christian Aid in the capital.

Annually, one third of the food produced in the world, which is 1.3 billion tonnes, is wasted, mainly by the developed countries, the study says.

‘Per capita food consumption by the lowest income group was about 40 per cent lower than consumption by the highest income group,’ said Nazneen.

The lowest income group is represented by the people earning less than Tk 15,000 a month while the highest income group people earn above Tk 35,000.

Food minister Qamrul Islam said the government ensured that nobody starved from food scarcity even when there was a huge increase in the demand for food.

‘People’s buying capacity has increased. The government is trying to bring those not having enough money to buy food under the protection of social security,’ said Qamrul.

Dhaka University’s Institute of Nutrition and Food Science’s professor Khurshid Jahan said 41 per cent of children aged below 5 suffer from stunted growth due to protein deficiency.

While, she said, a great majority of the country’s mothers suffer from anaemia for the same reason.

Right to Food vice-chairman Khondokar Ibrahim Khaled, Food Safety Authority chairman Mohammad Mahfuzul Hoque, Christian Aid Bangladesh programme manager Sanjib Biswas Sanjoy and Wave Foundation executive director Mohsin Ali also spoke at the seminar.