None
Pro-poor law on right to food demanded
Taking part in a public-hearing, professional leaders, development activists and other stakes unequivocally called for formulating pro-poor access to food law for ensuring food security in present context of adverse impact of climate change.

They viewed time-fitting measures has to be taken for boosting agricultural productions as the existing agricultural system and food security has started facing a serious threat due to the climate change.

A development organization, Paribartan, organized the divisional level hearing styled ‘Right to Food’ in association with another development organization, Barendra Unnayan Prachesta, at a local hotel here today.

Food Security Network and ActionAid supported the programme. Main thrust of the meeting was to build grassroots public opinion on formulating right to food law relating to the draft food security act.

ANK Noman of department of economics department at Rajshahi University, BUP director Foyzullah Chowdhury and Paribartan chief executive Rashed Ibney Obayed addressed the programme as focal persons with president of Metropolitan Press Club Mominul Islam Babu in the chair.

Local unit president of committee of concerned citizens Abdus Salam, daily Sonar Desh editor Akbarul Hassan Millat, Rajshahi social service officer Farhad Hossain and district unit president of Bangladesh Mahila Parishad Kalpana Roy also spoke

‘The ongoing climate change at alarming rates has severely affected every sector including agriculture and its diversity creating a real threat to food production,’ said ANK Noman.

Legitimate rights of the farmers and others concerned should be protected rightly for the sake of encouraging them towards boosting agricultural productions to meet up its gradually demands.

Noman referred to their enormous contribution to the country's agricultural development and said the farmers deserve the rights of getting all requisite privileges.

There is no alternative to protect their interests as a whole. He stressed for conducting more research to innovate newer technologies and ways for adaptation and expanded cultivation of stress tolerance and high yielding crops thorough popularising those among the farmers.

The deteriorating rate of climate change cannot be reduced overnight and positive results of the proposed global efforts might start improving the situation very slowly in course of time, but agro-productions must be continued.