None
Hygienic local food can attract int’l tourists: experts
National Hotel and Tourism Training Institute and Bangladesh Parjatan Corporation jointly organise a certificate awarding ceremony for chefs on cooking hygienic foods in Dhaka on Monday. — New Age photo

The country has enormous opportunity to reap benefit if it succeeds to create expert human resource for hospitality industry, given the fact that the world tourism industry would require a huge number of skilled human resources to promote tourism.

Hospitality and tourism experts and Bangladesh Parjatan Corporation officials made the observations on Monday.

Among the potential aspects in the tourism sector, diversified culinary of Bangladesh has many items to offer to the domestic and international tourists, they said.

While addressing Hygiene Carnival and Certificate Awarding Ceremony, jointly organised by National Hotel and Tourism Training Institute and Bangladesh Parjatan Corporation in the city, the speakers said that maintaining food hygiene was the prerequisite for any kind of culinary preparation.

On the occasion, around one hundred trainees of NHTTI received certificates under three short-term courses on food safety, hygiene, ladies culinary, fast food and bakery.

Since 1974, the NHTTI conducts various training programmes on hospitality and tourism.

BPC chairman Aparup Chowdhury, chief guest of the ceremony, said food hygiene was crucial for sustainable public health.

All efforts of personal hygiene practices would go in vain if the chefs, whether of home or food shop, prepare foods in unhygienic ways, said Aparup.

Community medicine expert Anupam Hossain said that diversified food of Bangladesh could be branded among the top five aspects of tourism for the country.

He said without maintaining food hygiene, the tourism industry would not flourish with full potentialities.

Chaired by NHTTI principal Parvez A Chowdhury, the programme was attended, among others, by BPC directors Shahadat Hossain and Mizanur Rahman, Bangladesh Tourism Board member Khabir Uddin Ahmed, chief executive officer of the Olive, Maruf Islam, actor Mir Sabbir and NHTTI head of food and beverage department Jaheda Begum.