None
PM opens country’s 1st solar-powered food silo
A photo shows a general view of the newly-built multistoried food warehouse at Santahar in Bogra. Prime minister Sheikh Hasina on Sunday inaugurated the solar-powered warehouse, having capacity of storing 25,000 tonnes of food grains at Santahar in Bogra. — New Age photo

Prime minister Sheikh Hasina on Sunday inaugurated a state of the art multistoried food warehouse, having capacity of storing 25,000 tonnes of food grains at Santahar in Bogra.

Department of Food has constructed the air-conditioned warehouse at a cost of around Tk 232.71 crore with the financial and technical support from Japan. It will preserve food grain through using solar power round the year.

Officials familiar with the construction of the solar-run silo said the warehouse would keep food grains in controlled temperature and moisture for long with intact quality.

They said the related structures like railway track and internal roads were built and necessary power systems were also installed as per need to make the plant operational.

The prime minister said the present government kept on its efforts for enhanced food stocks.

‘It is expected that the country would be able to build up 100 per cent food storage capacity by 2021,’ she said and expressed her hope that the newly built Santahar warehouse would help enormously in storing government food in Rajshahi region.

Food minister Qamrul Islam, land minister Shamsur Rahman Sharif, parliament members elected from the neighbourhoods and political leaders were present at the inaugural ceremony when the premier visited different sections of the warehouse and planted a

mango sapling at the silo premises.

The prime minister arrived in Bogra on Sunday morning to inaugurate various development projects and lay foundation of several others.

Hasina inaugurated extension part of Nandigram Upazila Complex, Shahjaanpur Thana Bhaban, Integrated Education Programme Building for Visually Impaired Persons, Shibganj Upazila Muktijoddha Complex Bhaban, Sicharpar Cluster Village Project-3, 12 Ashrayan Project at Sariya Kandi, Irrigation Programme through Solar Panel at Adamdighi Upazila, District Family Planning Office Building, 10-bed Mother and Children Welfare centre at Nungola of Barura Sadar.

The prime minister inaugurated the construction of Khoisha Kuri Bridge on Sariyakandi Highway, Joybhoga Bridge, hatfulbari Bridge on Bogra-Sariyakandi Highway, 10-kilometre rural road at Sonatala, Bogra Press Club Bhaban and Extension part of Sonatala Upazila Council administrative building and its hall room.



