None
Flat residents unlikely to enjoy power subsidies
The Power Development Board has proposed that people living in apartments should not enjoy government subsidies on power consumptions as they are solvent enough to pay higher prices.

The board petitioned the Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission on March 10 to fix Tk 7.80 per unit or kilowatt-hour for the domestic consumers living in apartments, its general manager for commercial operation Md Kausar Ameer Ali told New Age on Saturday.

Now the domestic consumers enjoy subsidised rates ranging from Tk 3.80 to Tk 5.63 per unit for their power consumptions up to 400 units per month, said officials.

Consumers Association of Bangladesh energy adviser M Shamsul Alam, also an electrical engineer, however, said that the authorities concerned should make a policy decision in this regard instead of making such decisions case-by-case basis.

The government as well as the regulator should first agree that they would put all privileged groups outside the purview of subsidy on power consumptions and include all marginal consumers under the purview of subsidies as required, he suggested.

He also said that the marginal consumers included domestic consumers as well as cottage and small industries, irrigation pumps, etc.

Domestic power consumers pay more than the supply cost once their consumption exceeds 400 units a month. They pay Tk 8.70 per unit for consumption of 401-600 units and that Tk 9.98 per unit for consuming more than 600 units, the officials said.

The average supply cost is approximately Tk 6.70 per unit, a power board official said.

In the proposal, the power board also sought retail price hike of electricity by 12.50 per cent on an average.

A commission official said that the power board also proposed that the thee-month time frame for temporary power connections to civil construction projects like multi-storey building, flyover, bridge, etc should be withdrawn as such construction could not be completed in three months.

The power board proposed reduction of the power tariff for civil construction projects to Tk 10.30 per unit from approximately Tk 20 per unit, said the officials.

Terms and conditions for the other temporary power consumers like fairs, festival programmes and any other social programmes would remain the same as their connections would be valid for three months and the tariff would be Tk 20 per unit.

The commission official said that the power board also proposed creation of a separate category for electric battery-driven vehicles with the tariff to be set at Tk 7.25 per unit. Now the electric battery-driven vehicles are categorised under the Non-Resident Group D with the tariff of Tk 5.22 per unit.

The board also proposed a two per cent rebate to prepaid electricity consumers as they paid the bills in advance, the commission official said.

The commission is examining the power board proposal along with four other power distribution utilities’ proposals for raising retail prices of electricity and would settle the matters through public hearings to be scheduled later this month, he said.

The other four power distribution utilities submitted their proposals in March. They demanded 8-11 per cent hike in retail power tariffs.

The power board’s proposal for retail price hike considered a proposed hike in bulk prices by 15 per cent but the other utilities demanded the hikes to make up their ‘shortfall’ created due to current tariff structure.

More about: