None
Farmers’ last hopes gone as flashflood lingers
Ten days have passed since hundreds of thousands of hectares of standing Boro rice in the Haor belt have gone under several feet of waters due to flashfloods.

Until Friday, there was no sign that the situation was improving as on-rush of water from the hills across the border continued to inundate the vast area.

The continuous inundation has killed the farmers’ last hope of saving a part of their production.

‘Only God knows what happens to farmers after they lose all hopes,’ said Jamal Khan, a farmer from Dakkhin Surma Upazila in Sylhet.

The Boro plants that Jamal cultivated in his 15-acre land had just flowered as the flashflood hit on March 29. He believed a part of the crop would have been saved had the flood water receded immediately.

But it was not meant to happen. Instead, the prices of rice and flour have gone up in the flashflood affected eight districts in the Haor belt.

Jamal had to borrow money as the price of rice he consumed increased by Tk10/12 per kg soon after the disaster befell on him. The price did not reduce till Friday either.

‘I know this is about the time I need to sell some more of my land,’ said Jamal.

Jamal also has an outstanding loan of about Tk 40,000 taken for buying Boro seeds for this year’s cultivation.

A national newspaper journalist, Nasrul Anwar has been in the Haor area soon after the flashfloods hit, covering the sufferings of the farmers.

According to him, rice businessmen were capitalising on the misfortune of the growers.

‘The businessmen increased the price seeing the magnitude of the disaster that may lead to food shortage in this area. The businessmen are stocking up,’ said Nasrul.

Retail and wholesale rice businessmen in Sylhet town told our correspondent there that importers were charging more than usual.

‘Prices of low-cost rice varieties went up by Tk 250 to Tk 450 per 50-kg sack,’ said Faruq Ahmed, general secretary of Kalighat Paikari Bazar in the town and a wholesaler.

The illegitimate price hike moved the local administration in Biswanath Upazila to act against the businessmen. The Upazila Nirbahi Officer on Thursday fined a businessman Tk 20,000 for increasing rice price.

The UNO of Dakkhin Surma Upazila is also aware about the price hike. He is holding meetings with the local businessmen to contain the situation.

Our Moulvibazar correspondent reported that the price of flour also increased along with the rice.

‘The flour price increased by Tk 2 per kg due to a sudden increase in the demand,’ said Nayeem Adamji, a retailer in Sreemangal.

A market analysis showed the prices of low-cost rice and flour, consumed by poor people, only increased.

‘How do you expect farmers to survive in this condition?’ asked Ansar Ali, a farmer in Moulvibazar’s Rajanagar Upazila, when he was contacted for comments about the situation.

More about: