None
Flashflood situation worsens in Haor belt
The onrush of water from the hills across the border inundated fresh areas of cropland in the Haor belt on Saturday, destroying some of the last stretches of standing boro rice fields of the area.

Farmers said they were waiting for a miracle to protect last of their flood protection embankments which had already withstood the onrush of water for 11 days until Saturday.

There was hardly any land available for digging up earth required for filling up breaches in the flood protection dykes that needed immediate repairs.

‘Now it is only a matter of time that the embankment protecting my cropland gets washed away,’ sighed Sanjib Talukdar Titu, a farmer in Sunamganj’s Madhyanagar, while talking about the embankment that was protecting 9,000 hectares of standing boro rice. Sanjib and his three brothers own 40 acres of it.

The brothers and their neighbours spent the entire Saturday trying to repair the embankment.

The convener of Ganadabi Parishad campaign, Habib Sarwar, said that these embankments would have been in better condition had they been repaired timely.

The flashflood has given rise to allegations of widespread corruption by the officials of Bangladesh Water Development Board in projects that were meant to repair the embankments.

BWDB’s Flood Forecasting and Warning Centre claimed that the flood situation had improved in the Haor belt on Saturday as the river water level did not rise.

Our Moulvibazar correspondent, however, reports that the water level rose there too and the flood situation deteriorated.

Alimuddin, a farmer of Bokshimulia union, witnessed complete destruction of crops on his 4.5-acre land on Saturday.

The union’s chairman, Azizur Rahman Monir, urged the government to declare the situation a disaster and help the farmers survive in the coming days.

Disaster management department director general Reaz Ahmed, however, did not agree with the idea. ‘That is something not likely to happen soon... Disaster is a situation from which people can escape only by means of help. I don’t think such a situation is prevailing in the Haor belt,’ Reaz said.

More about: