None
No reflection of people’s aspiration in PM’s India visit, says Manna
Nagarik Oikya convener Mahmudur Rahman Manna addresses a press conference on the treatises and memorandum of understandings signed between Bangladesh and India at Dhaka Reporters Unity on Monday. — New Age photo

Nagarik Oikya convener Mahmudur Rahman Manna on Monday said that there was no reflection of Bangladeshi people’s aspiration in the issues discussed and treaties signed between the two prime ministers of India and Bangladesh.

Addressing a press conference at the Dhaka Reporters Unity, he said that people of Bangladesh had an aspiration that three key issues – Teesta, border killings and trade gap – would be given priority during the prime minister’s visit to India.

But, Manna said, it is unfortunate that none of the three issues was given priority or even listed for discussion during the meetings of prime ministers of the two neighbouring countries.

Referring to the statement of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee about Teesta, he said that with the statement it was now clear that the signing of Teesta deal would be a far cry for Bangladesh.

Mamata on Saturday night while discussing with Bangladesh prime minister Sheikh Hasina proposed to share the water of Torsa river, instead of Teesta, saying Teesta is dry and Bengal will suffer if Teesta water has to be divided.

Manna, a former Awami League leader who recently got released from jail, said the alternative proposal from Mamata should never be accepted unless Bangladesh got its just share of the Teesta water.

He said there was an aspiration among the people of Bangladesh that the issue of killings of Bangladeshi citizens by Indian border security force would be discussed during the prime minister’s visit.

But the issue was not listed for discussion during the visit, said Manna.

He said a huge trade gap amounting to $550 crore as well as manifold trade barriers existed between Bangladesh and India, but there was no discussion for reducing the trade gap and removing the barriers during the prime minister’s visit to India.

Manna said that there was an allegation from Bangladesh that Indian government created many barriers before the Bangladeshi businessmen in case of exporting local products to India.

He said that the deals and memorandums of understanding signed between the two neighbouring countries in connection with defence issues were still in a vague state.

Manna said India signed a deal to give Bangladesh $50 crore loan for purchasing arms but it is not yet clear that from whom and what sorts of arms would be purchased.

Prime minister Sheikh Hasina returned home from India on Monday after a four-day official visit.