None
PM admits failure to bring Teesta water: Fakhrul
Bangladesh Nationalist Party secretary general Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir. -- Focusbangla file photo

Prime minister Sheikh Hasina has admitted failure to bring Teesta water during her four-day visit to India, claimed Bangladesh Nationalist Party secretary general Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir on Tuesday.

Fakhrul came up with the claim quoting the prime minister’s speech in Hindi where she expressed her satisfaction over getting ‘something’ by creating provisions for importing power from India.



‘I talked to Didimani (Mamata Banerjee) too. (We) sought water, but got electricity. At least something good has happened, we got something,’ Sheikh Hasina said going beyond her written statement delivered at a reception hosted by India Foundation, a think-tank of India’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in New Delhi.

The BNP secretary general said the people of Bangladesh had a least expectation over implementation of water sharing of common rivers particularly the River Teesta and signing deal.

But, the expectation was not fulfilled, he said.

‘We will not get the rightful share of water due to the government’s subservient foreign policy,’ Fakhrul said.

The senior BNP leader was speaking at a protest rally organised by Amar Desh Paribar marking its four years of shutting down publication.

The daily’s acting editor, Mahmudur Rahman, presided over the programme held at Institution of Engineers, Bangladesh in Dhaka.

In another context, Fakhrul said the government, tactfully and in different mode, is running a one-party rule in the country like BKSAL in 1975.

In this situation, a government of people is needed to be established removing the incumbent subservient government by taking to the streets getting united, he said.

‘We have to wage movement under the leadership of Khaleda Zia to protect our independence and it has to be made successful.’

‘If we can be able to make it successful, the daily, Amar Desh, will be published, freedom of press will be ensured, and we will get back fundamental and voting rights,’ Fakhrul added.