None
PM’s India visit did not fulfil people’s expectations: BNP
Bangladesh Nationalist Party senior leaders and pro-BNP intellectuals on Tuesday claimed that prime minister Sheikh Hasina’s just-concluded visit to India did not fulfil expectations of the people of Bangladesh.

Addressing a protest rally inside the Institution of Engineers’, Bangladesh auditorium in Dhaka, BNP secretary general Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir said that Sheikh Hasina had admitted her failure to bring Teesta water.

The event was organised by the daily Amar Desh family, marking the fourth anniversary of its closure.

Quoting the prime minister’s remarks made in Hindi — ‘... sought water, but got electricity’ — expressing her satisfaction over getting ‘something’ from India, Fakhrul remarked that Hasina herself admitted not getting what she wanted, but the thing she ‘got’, that is electricity, had to be bought with money. ‘People’s expectations were not fulfilled,’ he said.

Fakhrul said that the people of Bangladesh had wanted water of the river [Teesta] for protecting their lives and livelihoods as nearly one third of the population depended on it.

An agreement on equitable sharing of waters was needed, but that did not happen, he said, adding that the ‘subservient government’ would not be able to realise demands due to its ‘weak-knee’ policy.

The BNP leader said that the party had to forge movements under the leadership of BNP chairperson Khaleda Zia to protect the country’s independence and if they could succeed, the daily Amar Desh would reopen, freedom of press would be ensured and people’s voting rights be restored.

Fakhrul praised Amar Desh acting editor Mahmudur Rahman for not bowing down to the government’s conspiracies.

Former Dhaka University vice-chancellor Emajuddin Ahamed said that the people’s expectations were not fulfilled as issues like stopping border killings, sharing and management of Common River waters had not been highlighted during Hasina’s visit to New Delhi.

Ganashasthya Kendra founder Zafrullah Chowdhury said that Hasina could have earned a big victory had she made a deal to end killings of Bangladeshi citizens on the border areas.

Presiding over the event, Mahmudur Rahman said that Bangladesh had not lost its capability but the independence. ‘Bangladesh is not an independent country anymore.’

The editor said that they had to take to the streets to fight against Indian hegemony and incumbent ‘fascist’ government of Bangladesh.

Leaders of BNP and its front organisations, including Selima Rahman, Ruhul Kabir Rizvi, Syed Moazzem Hossain Alal, Habib-un-Nabi Khan Sohel, Saiful Alam Nirob, Sultan Salahuddin Tuku, and Shafiul Bari Babu, and writer Farhad Mazhar, poltical scientist Dilara Chowdhury, journalists Shaukat Mahmood, Ruhul Amin Gazi and Abdul Hye Sikdar, among others, addressed the rally.

More about: