None
Ctg city people brace for miseries as rains set in
Vehicles move on a road that went under water following a shower in Chittagong city. The photo was taken recently. — New Age photo

Moderate rain for two to three hours or a tidal flood is enough to put the port city of Chittagong in a mess, with prolonged water-stagnation causing immense sufferings to the city dwellers.

Rainy season setting in, city people see days of suffering waiting for them as the reasons which are blamed for people’s sufferings still persist.

City planners have been calling for building coastal embankment, regular cleaning of drains, construction of new drains, re-excavation of canals and punitive measures against encroachment but the situation remains unchanged.

In the past week, moderate rain sent low-lying areas, especially Bahaddarhat, Bakalia, Shulakbahar, Chawkbazar, Sholoshahar, Kapasgola, Chandgaon, Agrabad Axes Road, Commerce College road, Halishahar and Probartak under water, leaving local people to suffer immensely.

Apprehending, Banker Mazeda Sharif says, ‘If two to three hours’ rain brings such sufferings, what will happen when the city will go under water in near future?’

Chaktai-Khatunganj Warehouse Owners and General Merchants Association president Solaiman Badshah said every year tidal water from the River Karnaphuli enters the area through different canals including Chaktai Canal and inundates shops and warehouses, causing huge losses.

Demanding a strong river protection embankment in the area and sluice gates on all the canals and regular dredging in the Karnaphuli and its connecting canals, he said last year also the area went under tidal water several times.

Port officials also told New Age that loading and unloading of bulk cargoes in the outer anchorage was also disrupted due to rain.

Chittagong City Corporation’s chief town planner AKM Rezaul Karim told New Age the port city had its special characteristics.

‘So, we need to focus on these specialties if we want to solve its water logging,’ he suggested.

‘The north and west part of the city is completely hilly areas. Due to hill cutting, during rain the soil is washed down with rain water and fills drains and nearby water bodies and cause flash flood,’ he pointed out.

However, all kinds of solid wastes — domestic, industrial and medical — make this situation even worse and cause severe water-stagnation in the city, he continued.

Secondly, he says, as it is a coastal area because of tidal surge there is flood without any rain which was not the case till 20003-2004.

After 2005, the tidal inundation took a severe turn in some areas of the Chittagong city, Rezaul added.

The situation becomes horrible when these two factors occur together, resulting in inundation of 80 per cent areas of the city.

‘To save people from water-stagnation, firstly we need coastal embankment, which will stop sea water from entering into the city. Secondly, we need to set up sluice gates at the opening of the canals, especially in Mahesh Canal, Chaktai canal and Dome canal so that during rain water can be channeled through the canals. Thirdly, we need to develop a strong solid waste management system. People’s awareness regarding waste dumping is the most important remedy,’ he detailed.

‘We have already prepared the draft Sewerage and Drainage Master Plan. It is in the final stage. Drainage management is not an individual management, so an integrated management system will be developed through this master-plan. According to the master plan, CCC will be liable for the city’s drainage and CWASA for sewerage system,’ he informed.

However, Institution of Engineers Bangladesh, Chittagong former chairman Ali Ashraf said that development of drainage system and digging of new canals following the master plan could have put an end to water-stagnation.

He said a single new canal from Sholoshahar Gate No 2 to Bahadderhat and widening of Chaktai canal from Bahadderhat to Karnaphuli junction can address water-stagnation in a vast area of Sholoshahar, Muradpur, Bahadderhat, Bakolia and Chaktai.

Chittagong City Corporation chief engineer Lt Colonel Mohiuddin Ahmed, while talking to New Age, suggested coordination among the concerned government bodies to address the problem.