None
Mohiuddin, Jashim in early race to become FBCCI president
Md Shafiul Islam Mohiuddin, (left), Md Jashim Uddin

Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industries first vice-president Md Shafiul Islam Mohiuddin and former first vice-president Md Jashim Uddin have decided to run for the post of president of the apex trade body.

Members of FBCCI have become active in recent days ahead of the elections to the trade body expected to be held in April this year.

Two aspirants for the post of president have started to seek the blessings of the government to get the nomination for the top post of FBCCI, said business leaders.

The candidates who got the government’s backing were usually elected the president of the trade body for two-year tenures since 2002.

Business leaders said that so far Mohiuddin had an edge ahead in lobbying with the government for the post of FBCCI president as the garment sector leaders who have influence in the government were backing him.

Besides, FBCCI director Sheikh Fazle Fahim, who is the son of influential Awami League leader Sheikh Fazlul Karim Selim, is likely to be the vice-president candidate from Mohiuddin’s panel.

On behalf of Mohiuddin, former Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association president Anwarul Alam Chowdhury Parvez on Saturday organised a view exchange meeting with representatives of media and introduced Mohiuddin as the FBCCI president candidate.

At the event, Mohiuddin, also the former BGMEA president, said that he wanted to represent FBCCI with an aim to turn the organisation into a real apex trade body.

Jashim, however, is not happy with the BGMEA leaders’ backing for Mohiuddin as Jashim has been taking preparation for the last few years to run in the election to become president.

‘I have been working for last four years for the election to the post of FBCCI president. I do not know how the BGMEA leaders announce the name of Mohiuddin as the president candidate,’ Md Jashim Uddin, former first vice-president of FBCCI, told New Age on Sunday.

He said that he wanted to serve the trade body keeping himself above politics.

Jashim, also the president of Bangladesh Plastic Goods Manufacturers and Exporters Association, said, ‘I don’t know whether BGMEA selected Mohiuddin as a candidate. I am also a garment factory owner’.

Jashim hoped that he will get support from the general body members to become the next president of FBCCI.

The FBCCI is comprised of 81 chambers and 382 associations.

More than 2,200 voters of the trade body elect 32 directors out of 52—the rest are nominated by the government.

All the elected and nominated directors elect the president of FBCCI.