None
Govt yet to tap Saudi jobs for professionals
The government is yet to tap Saudi Arabian jobs for doctors, engineers, agriculturists, hotel managers and other skilled workers due to lack of availability of the affordable quality workers.

Expatriate welfare and overseas employment ministry’s officials said that professionals and highly skilled workers were recruited for overseas jobs through government recruiting agency Bangladesh Overseas Employment and Services Limited.

In its January report, labour wing of Bangladesh Embassy in Riyadh informed EWOE ministry that they found job opportunities for 10,000 workers in the category of doctors in health sector, construction services, engineering, driving, agriculture sector, hotel management, cleaning and domestic service workers.

When asked, EWOE ministry’s joint secretary for employment Narayan Chandra Barma told New Age on Monday that after reopening the job market, Saudi Arabia has been recruiting huge number of workers from Bangladesh.

But most of the workers going to KSA were unskilled, he said.

About professionals and skilled workers, he said that BOESL was mandated to hire different professionals and other skilled workers from Bangladesh for Saudi Arabia and other countries.

Meanwhile, BOESL officials told New Age that although they published advertisement, BOESL was not finding sufficient number of doctors to recruit for KSA.

BOESL deputy general manager Ariful Haque told New Age that they were scrutinizing the certificates of medical degrees of doctors who showed interest to work in Saudi Arabia.

For other professionals, he said that although BOESL was mandated to recruit the highly skilled workers, it has not yet received any demand for other professionals from the KSA.

BOESL executive director Rashidul Islam said that consultant and specialist doctors showed little interest to work in the KSA as they earn a lot in Bangladesh.

Around 300 doctors, out of the demand for 1000 consultants and specialists, submitted their applications to BOESL, he said.

Senior doctors were reluctant to serve abroad as they earn more at home, he added.

More about: