None
Biju festival begins in CHT
The entire Chittagong Hill Tracts wore a festive look as the three-day traditional Biju festival of the local ethnic minorities began on Wednesday with great enthusiasm and festivity through floating flowers in rivers and fountains seeking divine blessing for peace, prosperity and healthy life.

Biju, Sangrain, Bishu, Boisuk, Bihu and Sankran celebration committee on Wednesday formally floated flowers on Kaptai Lake at Rajban Bihar in Rangamati town.

Chakma Raja Devashis Roy, Prakriti Ranjan Chakma, president of Bangladesh Adivasi Forum of CHT chapter, Bijoy Keton Chakma, convenor of MN Larma Memorial Foundation and Intu Moni Talukder, secretary of celebration committee, were present during the programme.

Raja Devashis called upon the ethnic minority people to know the history of their culture. ‘Nowadays many of our ethnic men and women are losing their culture and they do not know how to wear traditional attires like Dhuti (for male), pinon-khadi (for female)’, he added.

The ethnic people of three hill districts of Rangamati, Bandarban and Khagrachhari are being celebrated Biju festival which will continue till Friday.

Every year the jumma people in the CHT celebrate the festival at the end of Bengali old year to shed the sorrows of old year and welcome the Bengali New Year.

Although the festival is merely related to the ethnic minority people, other community people also celebrate and enjoy it.

Eight of the eleven ethnic minority groups - Chakma, Marma, Tangchangya, Tripura, Mro, Khumi, Khiyang and Chak - are celebrating the carnival.

But the Lusai, Bawm and Pankhua do not observe the festival from the beginning as they have no cultural value about this.

Biju is not only a social festival for ethnic minority people but also a religious festival for them.

Basically, it is celebrated for three days, including two days of the old year and first day of the Bengali New Year. The ethnic people of three hill districts - Rangamati, Bandarban and Khagrachhari - are celebrating it simultaneously.

After passing a humdrum of routine life round the year, the ethnic people celebrate Biju with preparing of different food items.

The significance of the festival to the ethnic communities is the same although they term it in different names.

The Chakma calls it Biju, the Marmas calls Sangraing, Tangchangya terms it Bishu, Truipura calls Boisuk and Ahmia terms it Bihu.

The first day is called ‘Phulbiju’ the second day ‘Mulbiju’ and third day or first day of the Bengali New Year is called ‘Gojjya Pojjya Din’.

Wednesday is mulbiju (main function). This day, every house of the ethnic minority people prepares Pachan, a kind of mixed vegetable curry to feed the guests. The Panchan is very popular to the ethnic communities as they believe the Panchan is their hedges against any disease for the new year.

Moreover, they also make various types of pitha (cake) and sweetmeat. They also specially prepare alcoholic items like Do-choani, Hanji and Jaghora. Starting from adult to youngster they drink it and they enjoy it by going from one house to another in groups.

On the third day or ‘Gojjya Pojjya Din’ the ethnic people spend the day in relaxing in their respective house and they invite each other for luncheon. They do not do any work on the day and perform religious programme at temple.

However, the Marmas celebrate the Bengali New Year amid holding of water festival where the young boys and girls spray water jets each other.

More about: