None
Multinational hotel chain Dusit expands to B’desh
Officials of Lakeshore Hotels and multinational hotel brand Dusit International shake hands after signing a contract between the two hotels in the capital on Wednesday. — New Age photo

Multinational hotel brand Dusit International on Wednesday signed a long-term arrangement with Lakeshore Hotel for the opening of DusitPrincess Dhaka, under which Lakeshore would be the franchisee of Dusit in Bangladesh.

Dusit International, one of Thailand’s foremost hotel and property development companies, is set to tap into Bangladesh’s growing market for tourism and hospitality.

The high-end, mid-tier hotel building is already under construction at Sector 3 of Uttara area of the capital and will open under the company’s newly developed franchising model at the end of 2017, said Atique Rahman, executive director of Lakeshore Hotel.

The hotel will comprise 80 stylish guest rooms and 10 well-appointed suites set over a 13-storey building.

In addition, the hotel will feature restaurant, gym, swimming pool, spa and other amenities, he added.

‘Dynamic partnerships such as this are vital to Dusit’s sustainable and profitable growth worldwide, and we are delighted that Lakeshore Hotel Limited will be flying the flag for our distinctive brand,’ said Mr Lim Boon Kwee, Chief Operating Officer of Dusit International at the signing ceremony.

Atique Rahman, group executive director of Lakeshore Hotels Limited, Kazi Tareq Shams, managing director of Lakeshore Hotels Limited, Ante Baric, director of Development, Dusit International, were among others present at the event.

Dusit International currently operates 29 properties worldwide and has 51 confirmed projects in the pipeline in key destinations such as Australia, Bhutan, China, Indonesia, Kenya, Myanmar, Oman, Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Thailand, Turkey, and UAE.

Alongside DusitPrincess, other brands in the company’s international portofio include Dusit Thani, dusitD2, and Dusit Devarana.