None
Rawhide merchants facing crisis
Rawhide merchants across the country, particularly those based at Posta in the capital have been facing a serious crisis since Saturday when the tanners stopped buying rawhides from them.

Tanners said that they no more needed rawhides since their factories went out of production due to snapping of power, water and gas supplies by the government on orders from the court.

Over 2,50,000 pieces of rawhide worth Tk 30 crore remained unsold in warehouses at Posta, the country’s largest wholesale market for rawhides, less than a km from Hazaribagh, said rawhide merchants.

Not a single buyer visited the country’s largest rawhide whole market over the last seven days, they said.

Bangladesh Hide and Skin Merchants Association chairman Delwar Hossain said that rawhide suppliers across the country had been asked to stop sending their shipments to the capital until a solution to the ongoing crisis was found.

He said that the crisis brought down rawhide prices across the country as suppliers stopped lifting them from outlying areas.

He expressed fears that if the situation continued for long it could encourage smuggling of hides and skins out the country.

He said that a piece of rawhide worth Tk 12,000 was being sold at 30 per cent of its price.

Rawhide merchants said that rawhides being a highly perishable item their three to four months’ unsold

stocks had already perished in warehouses.

During random visits to Posta, New Age found most of the rawhide wholesalers whiling away their time.

The wholesalers expectations that their business would pick up any time soon had been dashed, said Sawkat Ali, a salesman at Kibria and Brothers

And the proprietor of the wholesale outlet, Kibria Bappy said that he found no buyers for 1,521 pieces of rawhide in his warehouse in ce last five months.

He said that he even could not pay his suppliers in last seven months.

Bangladesh Tanners’ Association and Bangladesh Finished Leather, Leather Goods and Footwear Exporters’ Association chairman Mohiuddin Ahmed Mahin said that after making huge investments on relocating factories to Savar the tanners ran out of cash for which they were unable to buy hides and skins.

Wholesalers said that until the new crisis cropped up, they used to sell 50 to 60 lakh pieces of rawhide to tannery factories annually.





More about: