None
Rights activists, politicians see as politics of vote
Politicians and rights activists observed on Thursday that the ruling Awami League paid heed to Hefazat-e-Islam demand to drop secular writings from textbooks and echoed its demand to remove a sculpture from Supreme Court premises due to vote and power.

Talking to New Age, the termed friendship the relation between AL and Qoumi madrassah-based Hefazat and warned that such activities of the ruling party were pushing the country to ‘dark and dangerous future’ and were ‘deviation’ from the spirit of the Liberation War.

They said that Hefazat did not believe in women leadership and the spirit of the liberation war, caused the main hurdle for the effective implementation of the women development policy and created troubles for ensuring of women rights.

In early 2017, the National Curriculum and Textbook Board dropped several essays and poems of secular

writers from secondary textbooks demanded by Hefazat.

The prime minister on Tuesday agreed with Hefazat that the statue of the Greek goddess Themis on the Supreme Court premises should be removed. ‘To speak the truth, I don’t like it. It’s a Greek statue, but how will a Greek statue get here? Moreover, the Greek goddess has been adorned with a sari. That too is ridiculous.’

Communist Party of Bangladesh president Mujahidul Islam Selim said, ‘Making friendship with and surrendering to communal forces would be suicidal and would destroy the achievement of the Liberation War. These steps would pave the way for flourishing and spreading of extremism.’

Mujahidul Islam and Socialist Party of Bangladesh general secretary Khalequzzaman said that the Awami League was drawing Hefazat closer to it as the Bangladesh Nationalist Party did for the Jamaat-e-Islami.

‘Bourgeois parties are surrendering to extremist and communal forces leaving behind their so called nationalistic approach, which is nothing but a political bankruptcy,’ said Khalequzzaman.

They turned religion and spirit of liberation war into commodities, he added.

Transparency International Bangladesh trustee board chairperson Sultana Kamal, also rights activist, termed the incidents as ‘dangerous,’

AL leaders must answer why they are paying heed to the demand of Hefazat, said Sultana Kamal, adding that there is a perception that Awami league was doing it for politics of vote.

‘Awami League has taken a self-contradictory position as they always say that they are secular,’ she said.

‘We will end up in such a black future that we might get no scope to return,’ she said.

‘Today they [Hefazat] are demanding scrapping of writings from textbooks, removal of sculpture and cleverly they are realising their demands and fulfilling their agenda,’ said the rights activist.

Women development policy remains hanging due to opposition of Hefazat, they have played vital role in legalising child marriage and now they are getting recognition of their master’s degree, she added.

Gana Sanghati Andolan chief coordinator Zonayed Saki said that this government was not a political legitimate government and they were trying to consolidate their power appeasing different quarters.

The Awami League is trying to appease India for the sake power Hefazat for vote and power, he added.

Jatiya Samajtantrik Dal standing committee member Anwar Hossain, also academic, said that Judiciary was separate and chief justice was to decide what should be there on court premises. ‘Prime minister should not make any comments regarding sculpture on the premises of the apex court,’ he said.

Country’s founding president Sheikh Mujibur Rahman dropped the word ‘Muslim’ from the name of the Awami League to make it secular. How Awami League is leaving secularism, the asked.

‘Current Awami League is not the Awami League of the past, it is really a matter of concern,’ he added.

Cultural activist Nasiruddin Yousuf said that the Awami League led the liberation war and met some expectation of the people in the past but its recent works, including dropping writings from textbooks, were ‘frustrating’ and ‘aggrieved us’.

‘Changes in the textbooks are a conspiracy and the government is part of it. This conspiracy is against the progress and the spirit of the Liberation War,’ he said.

‘The sculpture on Supreme Court premises is aesthetically weak but it could be developed,’ Nasiruddin said, adding ‘removal of it would be a compromise and such action is not expected from a secular party.’

Rights organisation Ain o Salish Kendra on Thursday expressed concern over Hefazat’s attempt to remove a sculpture from the apex court, the decision to recognise Dawra degree of Qawmi madrassahs as equivalent to master’s degree and the incident of defacing graffiti at the Fine Arts Institute of Chittagong University created ahead of the Pahela Baishakh celebrations.

More about: