None
Nation celebrates Pahela Baishakh amid restrictions today
Dhaka University fine arts faculty is busy with last minute preparations for Pahela Baishakh celebrations. The photo was taken on Thursday. — Sanaul Haque

The nation is set to celebrate the Bangla New Year 1424, Pahela Baishakh, today amid tight security and government restrictions on carrying bags, riding pillion on motorbikes and outdoor programmes after 5:00pm.

People, irrespective of age, religion and ethnicity, usually usher in the Bangla New Year every year through colourful processions, songs and fairs, and many programmes run until late into the night, beginning at dawn.

Besides fairs and festivity, businesses start the day on a new ledger, closing out the past year’s one.

The government restrictions drew huge criticism.

Udichi Shilpi Goshthi staged protests at Shahbagh in Dhaka on Thursday against fundamentalists’ activities and propaganda against Pahela Baishakh and the government’s compromise with them.

Addressing the rally Udichi president Shafiuddin Ahmed said that the restrictions would fade the festivity of Pahela Baishakh celebration.

Home minister Asaduzzaman Khan at a briefing at the ministry on security measures on Pahela Baishakh urged the Dhaka city dwellers not to carry bags for the day and ride pillion on motorcycles.

He warned that anyone might be frisked by law enforcers anywhere and stern action would be taken against pillion riders.

Asked about security threats against the backdrop of the execution top extremist leader Mufti Abdul Hannan Wednesday night, the minister said, ‘There is no specific threat for this year’s Pahela Baishakh celebration.’

The Bangla New Year is going to be celebrated within a few days of a reported threat issued by banned extremist outfit Jammatul Mujahedeen Bangladesh to Mangal Shobhajatra organisers in Barisal and damaging wall paining on the occasion of the day in Chittagong by unidentified people.

The home minister on April 3, after a meeting with authorities concerned, told reporters that the restrictions imposed by the police in the Palhela Baishakh would celebrations in 2016 still remained in force.

Dhaka Metropolitan Police in 2016 had imposed restrictions on Bangla New Year celebration, banning outdoor activities after 5:00pm. It also banned wearing masks and playing vuvuzelas.

The minister said that none would be allowed to join Mangal Shovajatra, a celebration procession, from any place other than the beginning point.

Dhaka University fine arts faculty teachers and students would bring out Mangal Shovajatra from the faculty carrying traditional objects reflecting Bengali culture and heritage at 9:00am.

The venues of Boishakhi fairs will be monitored by CCTV cameras, he added.

Thousands of people in Dhaka will gather at Ramna Batamul, the main venue of the celebrations, at sunrise, where cultural organisation Chhayanaut has been holding a music soiree since 1965.

Dhaka University proctor AM Amzad Ali said that neither outsider nor any vehicle was allowed to enter the campus, a major venue of Pahela Baishakh celebrations, after 8:00pm on Thursday.

He said that all the programmes must conclude by 5:00pm and no vehicle would be allowed to ply in the campus throughout the day.

President Abdul Hamid, prime minister Sheikh Hasina, Bangladesh nationalist Party chairperson Khaleda Zia and leader of the opposition in parliament Raushan Ershad issued messages greeting the nation on the occasion.

The capital is set to put on a festive look, and, from early morning, people in traditional attire throng Baishakhi Mela and other gatherings at Suhrawardy Udyan, Shahbagh, Dhaka University campus, Rabindra Sarabar and other venues, to celebrate the day.

People in other cities and districts will also arrange Baishakhi fair, cultural programmes and other gatherings to celebrate the day. Bangladeshis living in other countries will also celebrate Pahela Baishakh holding fairs and cultural programmes.

While Bengalis celebrate Pahela Baishakh, the hill communities in the Chittagong Hill Tracts celebrate Baisabi at the same time.

On Baisabi, a term formed by the first syllables of Tripura festival Baisuk, Marma’s Sangrain and Chakma festival Biju or Tanchangya’s Bisu, people welcome the new year.

The Bangla calendar with its first month Baishakh was introduced during the rule of Mughal emperor Akbar.

The day is a public holiday.

Bangladesh Betar and Bangladesh Television and all television and radio channels will air special programmes while newspapers published special supplements.

Dhaka Metropolitan Police officials said that closed-circuit television cameras and foolproof security with dog squad, SWAT unit, bomb disposal unit, Rapid Action Battalion, and detectives will be deployed alongside police in the Ramna Park, Dhaka University Campus and Shahbagh area.