None
Uncertainty looms over management of solid wastes
Management of solid wastes generated by the tanneries in Savar became a cause of concern for the industries ministry because of delay in setting up a sludge-based power plant.

The planned power plant is supposed to burn solid wastes from tanneries to generate five megawatt electricity daily and feed the central affluent treatment plant that would treat liquid tannery wastes.

But the BSCIC is yet to start the establishment of the power plant because of slow implementation of the project by the Chinese contractor, they said.

An alternative move by the industries ministry to dispose of the solid wastes to the city’s Amin Bazar landfill has been mooted to save the area from air pollution.

But the move became ‘uncertain’ because of condition attached by the Dhaka North City Corporation.

DNCC chief wastes management officer Mohammad Abdur Razzak said they attached the conditions in line with the guidelines from the local government ministry.

‘Tannery wastes management is always risky,’ he said, adding that the conditions are given to make the job risk-free.

The DNCC demanded Tk 1,000 as fees for disposal of per tonne solid waste in addition to mandatory certificate from Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology that the solid wastes are free from chromium and lead.

The DNCC also demanded that the wastes should be packed by the tanners.

At present, 54 ternaries processing hide in Savar generate solid wastes that are already causing severe air pollution in the surrounding area.

According to an assessment by the Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology, the solid waste amounting to 80 tonnes would be generated daily when all 154 factories will go into operation.

Tannery relocation project director Ziaul Haq did not agree to talk on the management of the solid wastes.

Another official of the project said DNCC attached the conditions during a meeting with industries ministry on April 5.

The meeting ended without any consensus, he said.

The official said industries ministry would sit again with the DNCC officials and ask them to relax some conditions including mandatory certificate from BUET.

The industries ministry missed several deadlines in the last seven years to complete the much-talked-about project components like CETP, dumping yard and power generation plant.

Two modules of CETP out of four were only completed.

The CETP is the main component of the project that was taken in 2003 to relocate 155 tanneries polluting the river Buriganga by discharging 25,000 tonnes of untreated wastes and 60,000 cubic metres of toxic chemicals every day.

The government increased the project cost several times now reaching at Tk 1078.71 crore and extended the project duration at least five times.

In 2001, the HC had directed relocation of the tanneries from Hazaribagh within two years to save the Buriganga from pollution following a write petition filed by Bangladesh Environment Lawyers Association.

More about: