None
Greens say no power plant at cost of Sunderbans
Green campaigners at a panel discussion called on the government to explore alternatives place for the Rampal power plant, observing that the project will have an adverse impact on the biodiversity of the Sunderbans, the largest mangrove forest in the world.

They said the country needs no power plant at the cost of the Sunderbans as it is a home to rare species that are already on the verge of extinction.

All For Sundarbans, a civic forum, organised the day-long discussion titled ‘Sundarbans: Glory, the Protector, and Risks to its Sovereignty.’

Held at the auditorium of BRAC Centre in the capital's Mohakhali area on Saturday, the discussion was presided by All For Sundarbans coordinator Rieta Rahman while it was attended, among others, by Anu Muhammad, BD Rahmatullah, Indian environmental scientist Soumya Dutta, and Tamij Uddin.

Expressing concern about the potential damage to the World Heritage site, BD Rahmatullah said ‘We need power but we must say no to any sorts of commercial projects that are harmful to the survival of the Sunderbans. Right now we can generate 10,000 MW electricity from solar energy, 10,000-12,000MW from biomass and 4,000-5,000MW from the wind which is well enough to meet our demand for electricity. So, we don't need any coal-based power plant in the country.’

Tamij Uddin said ‘Today we are talking about the sovereignty of the Sunderbans. But, to me, we are actually indicating it as the sovereignty of the country and the people of Bangladesh.’

Noting that political will is a must for protecting the Sunderbans, he added ‘The movement to save the Sunderbans is not only a move to protect the aquatic resources, ecology, biodiversity, and wildlife in and around the mangrove forest, but also a battle to change the character of the political practice in our country.’

He urged all to stand united against the decision of setting up the coal-based power plant in Rampal.

In her concluding address, Rita Rahman said ‘Our main aim is to further wage and strengthen the movement to save the Sunderbans. The irrational and unacceptable Rampal deal will cast an adverse impact on the state. We all should protest the move to installing the project, as to me, it's an indication of modern slavery.’

The speakers hoped that good sense of the government will prevail and the authorities concerned will take all necessary measures to cancel the project to save the Sunderbans, the living defender which protects the country from cyclones and other natural disasters.