None
Indian policy hinders direct electricity import
India has introduced a guideline that would bar Bangladesh from directly importing electricity from Nepal or Bhutan through Indian territory as the guideline allows no such electricity transit.

In December 2016, Indian power ministry issued the Guidelines on Cross Border Trade of Electricity.

The set of guidelines does not allow neighbouring countries to import electricity directly from another neighbouring country through India, said power division officials.

Instead, India wants to ‘facilitate’ such trans-border trade of electricity through its own agencies that will buy electricity from a neighbouring country and sell it to other neighbour under separate bilateral agreements, they said.

The power division, through the foreign ministry, sent a letter in late March requesting its Indian counterpart to consider tripartite arrangements in the guidelines to facilitate cross-border electricity trade in the south Asian region, power division secretary Ahmad Kaikaus told New Age in the past week.

India issued the guidelines at a time when Dhaka planned to invest in Nepal and Bhutan to build hydropower facilities there, mainly to transmit the electricity to Bangladesh through India.

In an office memorandum, the Indian power ministry said that the guidelines were issued against the backdrop that cross-border trade of electricity had been taking place with Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal under bilateral memorandum of understanding and power trade agreement.

Bangladesh’s latest Power System Master Plan suggested meeting 15-25 per cent of the total power demand from imports by 2040, the officials said, adding that the Indian guidelines posed a serious threat to Bangladesh’s energy security.

The guidelines would also obstruct Bangladesh’s plan to invest in Nepal and Bhutan as Indian agencies would be allowed to import electricity from any facility with at least 51 per cent Indian stakes, said the officials.

Consumers Association of Bangladesh energy adviser M Shamsul Alam, also an electrical engineer, said that Bangladesh needed tripartite agreements to import electricity from Nepal or Bhutan through India.

He demanded that India should amend the guidelines allowing Bangladesh to directly import electricity through India as Dhaka always facilitated New Delhi to connect its eastern and north-eastern provinces.

In November 2016, Dhaka announced that it would invest $1 billion in the 1,125MW Dorjilung hydropower project under tripartite cooperation with India and Bhutan.

In October 2016, Dhaka and Kathmandu agreed to set up a 1,500MW hydropower plant in Nepal, agreement for which was now under preparation.

On November 27, 2014, eight-nation SAARC signed a framework agreement for energy cooperation (electricity) with the declared objective of creating a regional energy market and enhancement of cross-border trade of electricity.

According to the agreement, any producer or utility of a member state would be allowed to trade power in the SAARC region across the border with permission from concerned states.

‘Member states shall enable cross-border trade of electricity on voluntary basis subject to laws, rules and regulations of the respective member states,’ the agreement said.

The member states would ‘enable non-discriminatory access to the respective transmission grids as per the applicable laws, rules, regulations and applicable inter-governmental bilateral trade agreements,’ said it.

It said that the member states would try to waive export/import duties, fees and other charges for cross-border trade of electricity.

The Indian guidelines, however, provides for tariff and transmission charges on the cross-border trade of electricity through its territory.

More about: