None
Flood victims in Haor areas in deep distress
Haor areas are going to face grave crisis with nearly two crore of its people losing their livelihoods in flashfloods, warns the Haor Advocacy Platform.

The flashflood destroys Boro rice cultivation on about 2.5 lakh hectares of land as onrush of water from the hills across the border continued to flow downstream for the 12th consecutive day until Sunday.

Farmers in the Haor belt usually grow only one crop Boro rice. With this year’s production had already destroyed, many of the farmers sank into extreme misery and distress.

‘Farmers resort to selling cattle as their last means of survival. But they will not get their next production in another year. There will be many weeks of starvation during that time,’ warned Sharifuzzaman Sharif, joint convener of HAP, a civil society organisation.

He gave the warning at a press conference at Dhaka Reporters Unity on Sunday.

He said they were yet to assess the damages caused by the flashflood that destroyed vast areas of rice fields in seven north eastern districts in the country.

Citing the department of agricultural extension’s estimate of the flashflood affected rice fields in three of the seven districts, he said the loss would be worth around Tk 20.53 billion.

According to him, the Haor belt had its worst experience of flash flood in two decades this year. There has been eight flashfloods during the time. Farmers managed to reap a part of their rice production each time as the flashflood came after the harvest. But this year, the flood hit just before the harvest.

At the press conference, the 68-year-old ICT expert Mostafa Jabbar, who is from one of the flood-affected districts, Netrokona, called this year’s flashflood ‘the worst’ to hit the Haor belt.

From Netrokona’s Mohonganj came the farmer Narayan Chandra Das for first time in Dhaka for attending the press conference. He had a story to tell.

Narayan lives in a joint family of 32 members. They have rice on 26-acre field completely destroyed in the flashflood. Facing extreme problem, they have been forced to sell 16 of its 22 cows.

‘I had already started buying on credit. And I told my kids that it was about the time to leave their studies,’ said Narayan before he was overwhelmed by bouts of crying. He could not resume talking.

More about: