None
Breastfeeding stressed to reduce child malnutrition
Child malnutrition has remained high in Bangladesh with more than one-third of preschool children are still stunned and underweight while wasting is almost 14-17 per cent, according to child health expert Manzoor Hussain.

Health practitioners and officials, at a discussion in a Dhaka hotel on Sunday, stressed the need for breastfeeding and improved adolescent healthcare to ensure child nutrition.

Presenting the keynote, Manzoor Hussain, Dhaka Shishu Hospital director and Bangladesh Institute of Child Health head of paediatric medicine and paediatric cardiology department, said that the major causes of child malnutrition in Bangladesh were adolescent marriage, adolescent pregnancy, mothers’ excessive physical labour, and inadequate gap between pregnancies, low birth weight children, pre-term children, lack of breastfeeding, poverty and lack of education on nutrition.

Despite government campaigns, he lamented, there was a decreasing trend of exclusive breastfeeding — 64 per cent in 2011 and 55 per cent in 2014. He related it with a rise in the rate of acute malnutrition among the children coming to Dhaka Shishu Hospital. He said that over 27 per cent children admitted to the hospital in 2012 had acute malnutrition while the rate was 38 per cent in 2016.

Poriprekkhit, a nongovernmental organisation, arranged the discussion where health minister Mohammad Nasim, former health adviser to the prime minister Syed Modasser Ali, Directorate General of Health Services director general Abul Kalam Azad, Institute of Public Health Nutrition director Muzaharul Islam Mamun, Bangladesh Breastfeeding Foundation president SK Roy, Infant and Young Child Nutrition Association of Bangladesh vice-president Naharul Islam Molla, Apollo Hospital principal dietician Tamanna Chowdhury and Square Hospital paediatric consultant Aftab Yusuf Raj, among others, spoke.

Health minister Mohammad Nasim said the breastfeeding should be ensured for all the children and child marriage should be prevented to ensure child nutrition and added that supplementary food for children should not be encouraged for the sake of business.

Nasim urged all the establishments to set up breastfeeding corners at workplaces and public places.

Syed Modasser Ali said that underage marriage contributed significantly to child malnutrition.

Abul Kalam Azad said that there was no exclusive government programme for children with malnutrition but programmes focusing all the children, which neglected addressing the child malnutrition issue.

The country’s mothers largely suffer from low haemoglobin rate, deficiency in iron, calcium, phosphorus and folic acid, which consequently make their babies vulnerable to malnutrition, said Tamanna Chowdhury.

Around 22 per cent of the babies are born pre-term and suffer acute malnutrition, said Aftab Yusuf Raj.

IPHN director Muzaharul Islam Mamun said that the institute had no programme addressing pre-term babies. He added that there was a programme for adolescent girl to ensure their nutrition before and during their pregnancy.

SK Roy said that over 40 per cent children were deprived of exclusive breastfeeding.

More about: