None
Rosy reception to Hasina
Prime minister Sheikh Hasina embraces three children with a smile at the lobby of Hazrat Shah Jalal International Airport in Dhaka as she returned from the United States on Friday after attending UN General Assembly. — Focusbangla photo

Hundreds of people from all strata in general and leaders and workers of the ruling Awami League and its associate and likeminded bodies in particular thronged the 14-kilometer street from Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport to Ganabhaban on either sides to accord a rousing mass reception to prime minister Sheikh Hasina on her return home on Friday.

The prime minister and members of her entourage landed at the airport from a flight of Emirates Airlines at about 6:50pm after attending the 71st session of the United Nations General Assembly in New York City but it took another 40 minutes for PM's motorcade to reach her Ganabhaban official residence at Sher-e-Bangla Nagar in the capital.

The people standing on either sides of the street, with miniature flags, showering petals, waving both of their hands and raising thunderous slogans greeted their leader and prime minister Sheikh Hasina, who also reciprocated the people's gesture waving her hands to the huge crowd from her car.

The huge colourful and splendorous reception was accorded to prime minister Sheikh Hasina on her being decorated with the United Nations prestigious ‘Planet 50:50 Champion’ and the ‘Agent of Change’ awards for her accomplishments for the country and its people as well as successes in the international arena.

The people greeted their prime minister blowing 'vuvujelas' (South African flute) and waving the national and party flags and showering flower petals.

As soon as Sheikh Hasina came out of the big aircraft, Awami League presidium member and deputy leader of the House Syeda Sajeda Chowdhury welcomed her presenting a bouquet.

Awami League advisory council members Amir Hossain Amu and Tofail Ahmed, presidium members Sheikh Fazlul Karim Selim, Obaidul Quader and engineer Mosharraf Hossain, general secretary Syed Ashraful Islam, joint general secretary Mahbub-ul-Alam Hanif, LGRD minister engineer Khondker Mosharraf Hossain, home minister Asaduzzaman Khan Kamal and other central and Dhaka city unit leaders were present at the airport, among others.

The prime minister left Dhaka for a 17-day tour of Britain, Canada and the United States on 14 September. Sheikh Hasina also attended the 71st session of the UNGA and addressed the UN session in mother language Bangla like her illustrious father Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.