None
Road accidents kill 17 in 6 dists
At least 17 people were killed while 44 others injured in road accidents in Chittagong, Sylhet, Mymensingh, Faridpur, Gopalganj and Chuadanga on Friday night and Saturday, reports received from the districts said.

Our Correspondent in Chittagong reported that three persons — Md Mozammel, 21, and unidentified 30-year-old woman and a CNG-run auto-rickshaw driver Avsar, in his fifties, — were killed and three others were injured in an accident at Hathazari area in Chittagong on Saturday afternoon.

Mohammad Alauddin, assistant sub-inspector of Chittagong Medical College and Hospital police outpost said the accident took place when a Chittagong-bound truck collided head-on with a CNG-run auto-rickshaw at Nandirhat area of Hathazari at about 3:00pm, leaving five persons injured.

Alauddin said that the duty doctors declared Mozammel and unidentified woman dead after they were rushed to CMCH.

In Mymensingh, five people were killed and 12 others injured in separate road accidents in Phulpur and Bhaluka upazilas on Saturday morning.

Ali Ahmed Mollah, officer-in-charge of Phulpur police station, said three people —Hridoy, 25, Shahid, 30, and Idris, 35, were killed on the spot and two others injured in a head-on collision between a bus and a pick-up van at Bhaitkandi area under the upazila. The injured were taken to Mymensingh Medical College and Hospital.

Mamun-Or-Rashid, officer-in-charge of Bhaluka police station, said two young persons — Ripon, 22, and Rasel, 25, were killed on the spot and 10 others injured as a bus overturned on yjr Dhaka-Mymensingh Highway at Hazirbazar at about 8:00am.

United News of Bangladesh reports: Three people were killed and eight others injured in a collision between two buses on Dhaka-Magura Highway at Nowapara of Madhukhali upazila in Faridpur Saturday morning.

Ruhul Amin, officer-in-charge of Madhukhali police station, said the collision between a bus of Sohag Paribahan and another of Royal Paribahan took place at about 9:00am, leaving Ayon, a passenger, dead on the spot and 10 others injured.

The injured were taken to Faridpur Medical College and Hospital where two unidentified men succumbed to their injuries, the OC said.

In Chuadanga, a bicyclist, Abu Sufian, 55, son of Saker Ali of Panch Kamalapur village under Alamdanga upazila in the district was killed as a human hauler hit his bicycle at Sohagpur intersection under the upazila Saturday morning.

In Gopalganj, three people were killed and 20 others injured as a truck overturned at Gangarampur in Muksudpur upazila on Friday night.

Police said the Bhola-bound fry-laden truck from Barisal overturned around 10:30pm as the truck driver lost its control over the steering, leaving Dulal Bepari, 50, and Gias Uddin, 28, from Bhola, dead on the spot.

The injured were taken to Rajair Upazila Health Complex in Madaripur where physicians declared Billal Gazi, 32, dead.

Bangladesh Sangbad Sangstha reported that two people were killed in a road accident in Nipoban area on Sylhet-Tamabil road in Sylhet on Saturday afternoon.

The identities of the deceased could not be known immediately.

The accident occurred when a truck collided head-on with a CNG-run auto-rickshaw in the area at about 3:30pm, leaving the two passengers of the auto-rickshaw dead on the spot, said Shajalal Munshi, officer-in-Charge of Sahaparan Thana.

More about: