None
Stocks remain negative for 7th day as large caps suffer
Dhaka stocks inched down on Thursday, extending the losing streak to consecutive seventh trading sessions, with the turnover on the bourse hitting two-month low amid decline in share prices of large capitalised scrips.

The key index of Dhaka Stock Exchange, DSEX, inched down to 5,645.86 points, shedding just 0.51 points.

DSEX has now lost 132 points in just seven trading sessions.

Despite a positive beginning of the session, the market finished in the negative trajectory for another trading session on Thursday, stockbrokers said.

The key index of the bourse increased by 22 points to reach at 5,668 points in first 37 minutes of trading amid a number of state-owned entities’ support to keep the market afloat, they said.

The market, however, failed to keep afloat as most of the investors remained worried over the market prospect following the recent market fall.

Due to the downward market movement, investors mostly remained on the sideline to observe the market movement rather than taking any fresh investment decision, resulting in significant fall in turnover of the bourse, stockbrokers said.

Turnover of the bourse declined to Tk 595.79 crore on Thursday compared with that of Tk 714.84 crore in the previous trading session.

Thursday’s turnover was the lowest after Tk 576.22 crore on February 6 this year.

The number of scrips appreciated on the day—it was higher than the number of depreciated scrips. The market finished almost flat on the negative trajectory mainly due to decline in share prices of some large capitalised scrips.

‘Market underwent reshuffling of investors, with smaller cap classes emerging as gainers and large cap classes declining,’ IDLC Investments said in its market commentary.

Micro caps advanced by 0.7 per cent, followed by 0.20 per cent appreciation of mini cap class.

‘However, their gain was nullified at the market level as large caps fell by 0.30 per cent,’ it said.

Among the large capitalised scrips, fall in share prices of Grameenphone, Square Pharmaceuticals, Investment Corporation of Bangladesh, Islami Bank and City Bank impacted the market the most.

DS30, the blue-chip index of DSE, finished at 2,087.33 point, shedding 0.29 per cent or 6.26 points.

The Shariah index, DSES, fell by 0.28 per cent or 3.66 points, to close at 1,294.87 points.

Of the 324 companies and mutual funds traded, 157 advanced, 121 declined and 46 remained unchanged.

LankaBangla Finance led the turnover chart with its shares worth Tk 21.40 crore changing hands.

Paramount Textiles, Tung Hai Knitting and Dyeing, IDLC Finance, Doreen Power Generation and Systems, Evince Textiles, Regent Textile Mills, Ratanpur Steel Re-Rolling Mills, City Bank and Islami Bank were other turnover leaders.

Regent Textile Mills gained the most on the day with an 8.59 per cent rise in its share prices, while Phoenix Insurance Company declined the most, shedding 6.98 per cent.

More about: