None
RMG sector not getting fair prices from buyers: Tofail
Commerce minister Tofail Ahmed on Tuesday said that Bangladesh’s entrepreneurs made huge investment to ensure safe working condition in the readymade garment factories but they were not getting fair prices of their products in the global market.

He said that country’s RMG workers were now working in safe working condition and no workplace accident took place in the sector after Rana Plaza building collapse as most of the RMG factories have been upgraded as per the EU standard.

Addressing the inauguration of a daylong workshop titled ‘The Mid-Term Evaluation of the EU’S GSP’ organised by EU trade division held at Hotel Le Meridien in Dhaka, Tofail urged the European buyers to increase the unit price of products.

The commerce minister said that Bangladesh has started its work to gain GSP Plus benefit in the European market as the country is moving forward to graduate to a developing country from least developed one by 2021.

‘The Generalised System of Preferences provided by the EU created positive impact in developing socio-economic condition and job creation in Bangladesh,’ he said.

The workshop was organised to review the impact of GSP in improving human rights, and social, economic and environmental issues in Bangladesh in last 16 years during the period of trade benefit.

Under the GSP scheme, the EU provided everything but arms facility for Bangladesh which created massive job opportunity for women in the country, Tofail said.

Senior secretary to the commerce ministry Hedayetullah Al Mamoon, EU ambassador to Dhaka Pierre Mayaudon, director general of EU trade commission Diniel Kramer, Centre for Policy Dialogue executive director Mustafizur Rahman, Export Promotion Bureau vice chairman Mafruha Sultana and ILO country director Srinivas B Reddy spoke at the programme.

Speakers said that Bangladesh failed to take the full advantage of the GSP facilities in the EU market due to lack of product diversification.

Despite huge opportunity, Bangladesh has failed to bring diversification in export products in the EU market due to lack of human resource and research, they said.





More about: