None
PMO forms committee to assess need for guidelines
The Prime Minister’s Office has formed a committee to examine the necessity for guidelines on investment by Bangladeshi companies in foreign countries as local investors have been facing difficulty in making investment abroad in absence of such guidelines.

The committee headed by Bangladesh Investment Development Authority executive member Ajit Kumar Paul will assess the need for the guidelines after analysing data and documents related to investment in foreign countries by local investors.

The PMO at a recent meeting on the issue formed the committee consisting of representatives from Finance Division, foreign ministry, National Board of Revenue, Bangladesh Bank and BIDA and asked it to submit its report within one month, according to the meeting minutes issued by the PMO on March 23.

PMO chief coordinator on sustainable development goals Md Abul Kalam Azad presided over the meeting where representatives from the ministries of finance, commerce and industries, BIDA, Bangladesh Bank, NBR, Bank and Financial Institution Division, Bangladesh Economic Zone Authority, Bangladesh Export Processing Zone Authority, Bangladesh Tariff Commission and Bangladesh Hi-Tech Park Authority attended.

The committee will take experts’ opinions in preparing its report.

In recent years, many local businesses have been demanding that the government allow overseas investment.

Some companies have also sought permission from the central bank to make overseas investment.

The central bank also gave permission to six companies to make the investment from the exporter retention quota on a case-to-case basis as there are no specific guidelines on the issue.

At the meeting, BIDA executive chairman Kazi M Aminul Islam raised the issue and emphasised formulating guidelines on investment in foreign countries by local entrepreneurs considering the existing situation.

He said that many Bangladesh businesses achieved global standards in terms of operating business activities.

Businesses also need to operate their business activities with physical presence abroad to reduce their cost of doing business, to enjoy the country of origin benefits in export, to collect raw materials and to ensure geographic proximity with their clients.

Allowing investment in foreign countries will benefit the country as investors will return the dividend from investment to the country, he said.

He said that investors were facing difficulties in making such investment in absence of any guidelines.

Representatives from different ministries and divisions who attended the meeting suggested that the government should examine various issues including current economic development stage of the country, its economic development strategy, foreign exchange transaction guidelines and required domestic investment and required financing for it before taking any decision on allowing overseas investment by local businesses.

Officials said that a government committee had also recently advised the central bank to review whether Bangladesh could adopt full capital account convertibility (CAC) allowing local businesses to make overseas investment.

If the system is adopted fully, any business entity of the country would be able to convert its capital (takas) into foreign currencies and make investment abroad without taking prior approval from the authorities concerned.

More about: