None
Citi announces CMA winners
Planning minister AHM Mustafa Kamal, state minister for finance and planning MA Mannan, Bangladesh Bank deputy governor SK Sur Chowdhury, CMA advisory committee chairman Wahiduddin Mahmud, Citi Bangladesh and Sri Lanka sub-cluster head James Morrow, Citi Bangladesh managing director Rashed Maqsood, Sajida Foundation executive director Zahida Fizza Kabir and Credit and Development Forum executive director Md Abdul Awal are seen along with the winners of the 12th CMA at a ceremony held in Dhaka on Saturday. — New Age photo

The winners of 12th Citi Microentrepreneurship Awards — 12 entrepreneurs and two organisations under six categories — were announced at a programme in Dhaka on Saturday.

Planning minister AHM Mustafa Kamal, state minister for finance and planning MA Mannan, Bangladesh Bank deputy governor SK Sur Chowdhury and CMA advisory committee chairman Wahiduddin Mahmud attended the programme at a city hotel.

They also distributed the CMA awards, sponsored by Citi Foundation, the philanthropic arm of Citigroup, among the winners.

Zillur Rahman Chowdhury, an entrepreneur from Shaluka, Naogaon received the ‘Best Microentrepreneur of the Year’ award with Tk 4.5 lakh in prize money.

Md Saiduzzaman Sarkar from Sherpur, Bogra became first runner-up in the ‘Best Microentrepreneur of the Year’ category and Md Azijul Hoque Sikder became second runner up.

Ruma Akter from Bajrayogini, Munshiganj received the ‘Best Woman Microentrepreneur of the Year’ award with Tk 3.5 lakh in prize money. Fazilatun Nessa from Mohammadpur, Dhaka became the first runner-up in the same category and Rubama Sharmin from Dampara, Chittaging became second runner-up.

Md Rubel Dewan from Ashulia, Savar became the ‘Best Youth Microentrepreneur of the Year’ receving Tk 3.5 lakh Rahima Khatun (Mukta) from Gobindaganj, Gaibandha and Md Taifur Rahman Raju won the first and second runner up awards respectively.

Saima Khatun from Shyamnagar, Satkhira won as the ‘Best Microentrepreneur of the Year in Agriculture’ award receiving Tk 3.5 lakh while Md Altaf Hossain from Khansama, Dinajpur became first runner-up and Md Nurul Amin Sardar from Zajira, Shariatpur became second runner up.

The first runner-ups of all the four categories each got Tk 1.5 lakh in prize money while the second runner ups each got Tk 1 lakh.

Peoples Oriented Programme Implementation received the ‘Best Microfinance Institution of the Year’ award and Village Education Resource Center received the ‘Most Innovative Microfinance Institution of the Year’.

In the event, planning minister said, ‘As Bangladesh Bank and NGOs are interrelated with SME, they should come forward to develop this sector’, he added.

He urged SME Foundation to open a research wing to make it easier for the government to solve various problems it is facing for years.

Mannan said that the micro financers are playing a vital role in reducing the poverty line of the country.

Citi Bangladesh and Sri Lanka sub-cluster head James Morrow, Citi Bangladesh managing director Rashed Maqsood, Sajida Foundation executive director Zahida Fizza Kabir, Credit and Development Forum executive director Md Abdul Awal were also present.



