None
Both old, new BINs to remain valid till June 30
Both old and new business identification numbers (BIN) will remain valid up to June 30 so that newly registered businesses can conduct their business activities smoothly.

The VAT Online Project of the National Board of Revenue on Monday issued a circular requesting the related agencies including banks and customs houses to accept both BINs, known as VAT identification number, in opening letter of credit and for customs purposes respectively.

The VOP has also requested the Bangladesh Bank, all commercial banks, Central Procurement Technical Unit of the planning ministry and customs houses for issuing instructions in this connection.

The revenue board also said that the agencies could check the authenticity of both old and new BINs using the ‘Check Status’ option in the NBR website www.nbr.gov.bd and scanning the QR Code of nine-digit e-BIN certificate.

The revenue board on March 15 started issuing fresh nine-digit online BINs and replacing 11-digit old BINs in a bid to automation of the value-added tax system under the new VAT and Supplementary Duty Act-2012.

The new VAT law is expected to come into force from July 1 and businesses will not be able to conduct any types of business activities including import, export, opening letters of credit, obtaining bank loans and participating in tenders with old BINs as those will become automatically invalid from the day.

Till Tuesday, a total of

2,447 businesses received e-BINs using the online system of the VOP.

Of which, around 80 per cent or 1,917 BINs are obtained by new businesspeople who did not have BINs earlier.

Officials said that there were administrative orders of the revenue board under which businesses required mandatorily providing 11-digit BINs in export and import documents, in opening letters of credit, in and completing customs assessment of import and export goods.

Businesses have also to furnish 11-digit BINs in participating tenders and conducting other business activities, they said.

The orders created confusion among bank officials and customs officials whether they would accept new BINs before July 1, they added.

New BIN holders are also facing problems in opening letters of credit, participating in tenders and conducting other business activities.

‘So, the VOP issued the circular to remove confusion over the issue,’ an NBR high official told New Age on Wednesday.

He said that they were issuing 200 to 250 e-BINs every day.

According to the circular, businesses that had old BINs but now obtained new BINs will be able to conduct their business activities with old BINs until June 30.

New businesspeople will be able to run their business activities with new BINs, it said.

The agencies were also requested to stop providing services to businesses having old BINs from July 1.

More about: