None
Stocks drop for 6th day in panic-driven sell-offs
Dhaka stocks declined on Wednesday, extending the market fall to sixth consecutive session, as investors continued to sell off shares in anticipation of further fall following the five-day market fall.

The key index of Dhaka Stock Exchange, DSEX, finished at 5,646.37 points, shedding just 0.65 per cent or 37.08 points.

DSEX has now declined 131 points in six trading sessions.

In line with last five trading sessions, the market started to fall from the very beginning of the session with decline of 10 points within first half-an-hour of trading, stockbrokers said.

The fall continued afterwards amid investors’ panic-driven share sales in anticipation of further market fall, stockbrokers said.

Besides, investors’ wait-and-see approach to assess the country’s benefits following the signing of 22 agreements and memorandum of understanding between Bangladesh and India during Sheikh Hasian’s India visit was among other reasons behind the six-day market fall, they said.

The price adjustments by the banks following their record date were also a reason behind the recent market fall, stockbrokers said.

DSE Brokers Association of Bangladesh president Ahmad Rahsid told New Age that the central bank’s increased monitoring following the recent market fall and post-dividend announcement-centric price adjustment was the major reasons behind the market fall in last six trading sessions.

On the other hand, the slump in share prices of financial scrips after recent months rally also played a vital role in dragging the market down, said LankaBangla Finance in its daily market commentry.

NBFIs and banking sectors were the worst looser of the day dropping by 1.90 per cent and 1.61 per cent respectively.

DS30, the blue-chip index of DSE, fell by 0.66 per cent or 14.09 points, to close at 2093.59 points on Wednesday.

The Shariah index of the bourse, DSES, declined slightly to 1,298.54 points, shedding 0.14 per cent or 1.85 points.

Turnover of the bourse also declined to Tk 714.84 crore compared with that of Tk 742.62 crore in the previous trading session.

Of the 327 companies’ shares and mutual funds traded on the day, 120 advanced, 170 declined and 37 remained unchanged.

LankaBangla Finance led the turnover chart on the day with its shares worth Tk 31.71 crore changing hands.

Evince Textiles, IFIC Bank, Brac Bank, Beximco Pharmaceuticals, IDLC Finance, Regent Textiles Mills, Tung Hai Knitting, Ratanpur Steel Re-Rolling Mills and Bangladesh Export and Import Company were among other turnover leaders.

Rahim Textile Mills gained the most on the day with a 7.57 per cent rise in its share prices, while Eastern Bank was the worst loser of the day, shedding 11.88 per cent.

More about: