None
BSEC tightens diversion of IPO, rights proceeds
Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission on Thursday tightened utilisation proceeds of funds raised by the companies from the capital market by floating shares through initial public offering or offering rights shares.

Under the tightened rules, companies will have to take approval from the commission in this regard after getting approval from majority of the entities’ general shareholders.

The BSEC decision to tighten fund utilisation proceeds came from a meeting held on the day at the capital market regulator’s office at Agargaon in Dhaka.

As per the decision, BSEC will impose a fresh condition under section 2CC of Securities and Exchange Ordinance, 1969 that would bar companies to use IPO or rights offer fund in alternative way without taking approval from majority shareholders.

From changing IPO or rights offer fund utilisation proceeds, companies will have to get approval from at least 51 per cent of its public shareholders at a general meeting rather than approval only from its sponsor-directors.

At the same time, companies will have to publish board of directors’ decision of changing use of proceeds as price sensitive information with detailed description and reasons for such decision, a BSEC press release issued on Thursday said.

Once the proposal for use of proceeds is approved by the majority shareholders, companies will have to submit application to the BSEC for changing use of proceeds along with reasonable explanations for approval, it said.

As per the existing rules, there was no requirement of getting approval from the BSEC in this regard, while getting approval from the majority shareholders was also unnecessary.

The capital market regulator came with the decision as a significant number of companies change use of IPO or rights offer fund utilisation proceeds immediately after getting regulatory approval, a BSEC official told New Age.

He also said that the commission had come up with the decision with a view to containing such malpractices where there was previously no jurisdiction of BSEC, even if the decision hampers investors’ interest.

Diversion of IPO fund of Summit Purbanchol Power

Company Limited, already merged with Summit Power, was one of the major incidents of such malpractice which drew huge criticism.

SPPCL, within few months of getting BSEC approval for raising Tk 120 crore from the capital market, announced that the entity will buy stake of Summit Narayangonj Power Limited, another subsidiary of its mother organisation, instead of redeeming its preference shares which were held by 15 banks and financial institutions.

Although a BSEC commissioner had acknowledged SPPCL’s such as an unethical practice, it failed to do anything in the absence of legal authority over the company’s move.

More about: