None
NBR gets Tk 566cr in arrear taxes in Halkhata celebration
National Board of Revenue member Kalipada Halder receives a cheque for outstanding tax from a taxpayer at Halkhata festival organised by the NBR marking Chaitra Sankranti in Dhaka on Thursday.— New Age photo

The National Board of Revenue on Thursday celebrated traditional Halkhata festival marking Chaitra Sankranti, the last day of Bangla year, with taxpayers responding positively to the revenue board’s call for paying outstanding taxes.

Taxpayers paid Tk 566 crore in due income tax, customs duty and value-added tax at the Halkhata festival celebrated across the country.

Of the amount, the revenue board received Tk 305 crore in income tax, Tk 207 crore in customs duty and Tk 53 crore in VAT from the taxpayers.

The Chittagong Customs House alone received highest Tk 183 crore in outstanding customs duty, according to a primary estimate of the NBR.

The Income Tax Zone-2, Dhaka got the second highest with Tk 57.17 crore in income tax, officials said.

Field offices of the NBR arranged different programmes including views exchange meeting with taxpayers and offering various types of sweets on the occasion with the theme ‘Payment of arrears, not realisation’.

Tax officials greeted taxpayers with flowers and different traditional foods including sweets at tax offices from 9:00am to 5:00pm.

Field offices were decorated with colourful traditional items like alphana, masks, bamboo, earthen vessels and colourful gates.

Halkhata is a traditional programme celebrated by the businesses on the last day of Bangla year to realise arrears from their clients and to open new book of accounts for the new Bangla year.

Businesspeople were seen gathering at the field offices located in Dhaka to pay their arrears, and in some cases, to pay taxes in advance.

The large taxpayers unit (income tax) arranged a day-long programme styled ‘Open House Day’ and the Halkhata programme at its premises in Dhaka.

State minister for health Zahid Malik inaugurated the programme while Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry president Abdul Matlub Ahmad and representatives from different large taxpaying entities including banks attended the programme at different time.

Matlub praised the revenue board for arranging such programme and hoped that continuation of the programme in the coming years would enhance trust between taxpayers and taxmen.

He said that the revenue board might declare some incentives for paying tax at Haltkhata programme.

Green Delta Insurance Ltd adviser Nasir A Chowdhury, Bank Asia managing director Md Arfan Ali, Bangladesh Leasing and Finance Companies Association president Kholilur Rahman, Internal Resource Division additional secretary Abdur Rouf, LTU (income tax) commissioner Alamgir Hossain spoke, among others, at the programme. Some large taxpayers under the office paid Tk 28.44 crore in outstanding tax on the day.

The large taxpayers unit (VAT) also arranged a views exchange meeting with chief financial officers and company secretaries of different firms in 28 large sectors including telecom, tobacco, pharmaceuticals and cement on settlement of disputes through alternative dispute resolution and payment of dues.

LTU (VAT) commissioner Matiur Rahman said that taxpayers paid Tk 10.80 crore in outstanding VAT at the programme.

According to the primary data collected from the offices, Income Tax Zone-1, Dhaka received Tk 28 crore, Zone-5 got more than Tk 5 crore, Zone-12 Tk 4.5 crore, Zone-13 Tk 5.12 crore, Zone-14 Tk 5 crore, Benapole Customs House Tk 1.35 crore, VAT Excise and Customs Commissionerate Dhaka South Tk 4 crore and its Dhaka North received Tk 2.7 crore in outstanding VAT on the day.