2017-02-22 00:00:00+06:00
BASP awards Golam Mostafa Abritti Padak
Bangladesh Abritti Samonnoy Parishad (BASP) honoured 10 noted personalities with the Golam Mustafa Abritti Padak, for their valuable contributions in the field of poetry recitation on February 20. The recognition was posthumously awarded to Mrinal Sarkar, Waheedul Haque, Hemchandra Bhattacharya, Professor Noren Biswas and Kazi Abu Zafar Siddique. Other awardees were Nikhil Sen, Syed Hasan Imam, Kamal Lohani and Ashraful Alam.

The event took place at the National Theatre Hall of Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy in the wake of Language Martyr's Day and International Mother Language Day. The awards were conferred in a tribute ceremony in remembrance of renowned actor Golam Mustafa. Minister for Cultural Affairs Asaduzzaman Noor graced the occasion as the chief guest while noted actor and elocutionist, as well as the daughter of the late Golam Mustafa, Suborna Mustafa attended as special guest. General Secretary of BASP Mohammad Ahkam Ullah hosted the programme.

During a welcome speech Suborna Mustafa said, “Every year on this day, I hope to gather with everyone in joyous remembrance of my father.” Cultural Affairs Minister Asaduzzaman Noor also expressed his appreciation of the event's initiative saying, “Golam Mustafa is an individual whose talent not many have matched, and his contribution to Bangladeshi culture is nothing short of outstanding. His legacy has immortalised him, and he will continue to live on in our hearts.”

Asaduzzaman Noor opened the event by reciting Abdul Gaffar Chowdhury's “Ekushey February”. The performance enthused the audience, who recited the verses in unison, and members of BASP gathered on stage and presented the minister with flowers to express their respect and appreciation.

Each awardee was presented with Uttariyo, a cheque and a crest. This was followed by a poetry recitation performance by Syed Hasan Imam and Ashraful Alam. Kamal Lohani and Anjali Biswas, wife of the late Noren Biswas delivered speeches.

The second installment of the programme included poetry recitation by various cultural organisations, including Kanthashilon, Sarasruti, Kotha Abritti Charcha Kendra, Dhaka Shorokolpon, Shongbrita, Mukhtodhara Sangskriti Charchakendra, Projonmokontho, Charukontho Abritti Sangshad, Srot Abritti Sangshad, Shorobanjon, Muktobak, Shorokolpon Abrittichotro, Trilok Bachik Pathshala, Charubak, Muktodhara Abritti Charchakendra, Shorochitro, Abritti Academy, Boikontho Abritti Academy and Udichi.