2017-02-25 00:00:00+06:00
Bengal Sangskriti Utshab gathers momentum
Thursday's festival began with a film screening at the Syed Mujtaba Ali Mancha. Zahidur Rahman Anjan's film “Meghmallar”, based on Akhtarzzaman Elius short story “Raincoat”. An enthusiastic audience enjoyed the Liberation-War based film, starring noted actors Shahiduzzaman Selim, Jayanta Chattopadhyay and Aparna Ghosh. Later in the evening, the same stage saw the staging of Manipuri Theatre's play “Kohe Birangana” – a monodrama starring Jyoti Sinha, divided in four parts.

The evening's musical performances began at the Hason Raja Mancha with a performance of Bhajan Baul. A true practitioner of the baul tradition, Bhajan spread philosophical messages like “Amare Ki Rakhben Guru Choron Dashi”, “Aj Amaye Kwopni De Go Bharoti Goshai” and “Bhojo Re Anonder Gourango” of Lalon Shai, explaining the deep meanings of the lyrics in between. He also sang more popular numbers like “Namaj Amar Hoilo Na Aday” by Sylheti bard Durbin Shah, and Lalon song “Cholo Jai Anonder Bajare”.

Artistes of the Bengal Parampara Sangeetalay then took the stage, to present a group tabla recital. Accompanied by the harmonium, their lahora displaying technical dexterity and enthralling rhythms seemingly impressed the audience.

Manomay Bhattacharya, a reputed vocalist from India, then came to the stage, opening with his strongest repertoire, Nazrul Sangeet. His presentation of “Srijono Chhonde Anone Nacho Notoraj” and “E Kon Modhu'r Sharab Dile” were impeccable, following which he performed another Nazrul song, “Sati Hara Udashi Bhairav KaaNde”, based on a Raga Nazrul created to compose this particular song, Udashi Bhairav. He then went on to display his versatility by performing two Rabindra Sangeet numbers – “Aji Gobhiro Pobone” with a dramatic, orchestral arrangement, and the more familiar “Tumi Robe Nirobe”. Manomay then switched to Adhunik songs, singing his originals like “O Re Mon” and “Dishaheen” (from the soundtrack of film “Rangbaaz”), and covers like RD Burman's “Shono Mon Boli Tomay” and Shyamol Mitra's “Jodi Kichu Amare Shudhao”.

One of the top folk singers of the country, Chandana Majumdar was the final performer of the day, and she brought along her able successor, daughter Shatabdi Roy to perform on stage with her. The mother-daughter duo took turns singing popular folk songs – from Lalon to Hason to Shah Abdul Karim -- “Dhonno Dhonno Boli Tarey”, Radharaman's “Amare Bondhuar Mone Nai”, “Tin Pagoler Holo Mela”, “Manush Bhojle Sona'r Manush Hobi”, “Mati'r Pinjiray”, “Sona Bonde Bhuilo Na Amare” and more, as the crowd sang and danced along.

The other aspects of the festival – crafts fair, architectural exhibit, a display of sweets of Bengal, a bioscope for children, the art camp and traditional delicacies from various regions, were also thoroughly enjoyed by the audience.

Yesterday morning, literary magazine Kali O Kalam's three-day literary conference also opened at the Syed Mujtaba Ali Mancha, where the inaugural session was addressed by Bengal Foundation DG Luva Nahid Choudhury, Indian actor-writer Shaoli Mitra, noted author Hasan Azizul Haq, Amiya Dev (from India), Begum Akhter Kamal, Dean of Arts Faculty of Dhaka University, and Abul Hasnat, poet and editor of Kali O Kalam. The session was chaired by Professor Serajul Islam Chowdhury. The four sessions on the first day included topics like contemporary literature, Bangladesh's literature and social system, heritage in literature and women in literature.