2017-03-02 00:00:00+06:00
An assortment of melodic offerings
The seventh day's (February 28) programme of the 10-day Bengal Sangskriti Utshab Sylhet 2017 was set off with classical flute recital by renowned flautist Md. Moniruzzaman. The artiste mesmerised the audience with first performing Raga Hansadhwani, at the Hason Raja Mancha. The recital was evocative of outstanding raagdari, beautiful taan presentation in mandra and taar saptak, pukar and tehai.

To diffuse the melodic colours and distant romance in the air of hills, the artiste later played a Pahadi dhun and a folk melody “Kande Hason Rajar Mon Moynaye Rey”. Iftekhar Alam Pradhan Dollar on tabla and Shusen Kumar Roy on pakhawaj accompanied the performance on teentaal and kaharba while Ekram Hossain on surmandal and percussion assisted in the proceedings. The audience produced rounds of applause to appreciate Moniruzzaman's presentations.

Sharmin Sathi Islam Moyna and Bizon Chandra Mistry next took the stage to offer bhajan and kirttan at the festival. The singer duo rendered solos and duets mainly composed by Kazi Nazrul Islam. Besides, Moyna performed a DL Roy kirttan “Ekbar Gaal Bhora Maa Daak-e” and Bizon rendered an adi kirttan “Pa Khani Nachone” by Brohmo Purindar and a Vivekananda song “Mon Cholo Nijo Niketon-e”.

They started off and wrapped up their set with duets, “Khelichho E Bishwa Loye” and “Hridi Podde Choron Rakho”. Their solo repertoire included “Sakhi Ami Na Hoy”, “Baje Monjul Monjir”, “Orey Neel Jamunar Jol” and “Jodi Tor Hrid Jamuna”.

Prior to starting off her performance, noted Tagore singer Shama Rahman thanked Bengal Foundation for organising such a large-scale festival outside Dhaka in the month of February and March, the month of our glorious Language Movement and Independence respectively. She first rendered a Swadesh Parjaya song “Swarthok Janam Amar”. She later performed popular songs like “Ami Kaan Pete Roi”, “Sakhi Bhabona Kaharey Boley”, “Bhalobeshe Sakhi”, “Rodon Bhora E Boshonto” and “Ekla Cholo Re”.

The audience greeted renowned Indian singer Srikanto Acharya with rounds of applause as he took stage. The celebrated singer first performed a Rudra Mohammad Shahidullah song “Bhalo Achhi Bhalo Theko”. He enthralled the audience with popular records “Bondhu Tomar Poth-er Sathi Ke”, “Amaye Proshno Kore”, “Amar Sarata Din” and “Keno Dur-e Thako”.

Srikanto also shared some of his musical memories with the audience. He has been fond of experimenting Bangla Ghazal for several years. Prior to performing a melodious ghazal, he shared the back-story of the song “Nijeke Shey Aj Emoni Bhejabe Brishti Ele” that he, along with Joy and Srijit, created and recorded for his last album “Musafirana”. The audience received his rendition of an experimental song where present and old memories are mingled. Anjan Dutt and Neel Anjan created the song “Cholo Ekhono Somoy Achhe” for a film. The film track “Ei Poth Jodi Na Shesh Hoy” was incorporated in the song.

The artiste performed a Tagore song “Amar Ei Poth Chawatei Anondo” and made the audience sing with him the song “Jodi Tor Daak Shune Keu”.

The festival, dedicating to Gyantapas Abdur Razzaq, saw a huge turnout on the seventh day. The festival venue also offers an art camp, a craft fair, film screening and a display of traditional instruments.