2017-03-03 00:00:00+06:00
Upholding diverse aspects of Bangladeshi culture
In an attempt to showcase the diverse elements and aspects of Bangladeshi culture, the 10-day (February 22-March 3) Bengal Sangskriti Utshab Sylhet 2017, organised by Bengal Foundation, has many things to offer. Cultural enthusiasts of Sylhet thoroughly enjoyed performances of varied songs, instrumental recitals, dance, recitation, theatre and film. Besides, the grand scale festival has an art camp participated by prominent and promising Bangladeshi artists, a craft fair displaying the traditional crafts of Bangladesh, a literary conference (that ended on February 26) and a display of traditional musical instruments and architectural designs and maps of Sylhet and Dhaka.

The vivacious presence and musical performances by both Bangladeshi and Indian artistes at Hason Raja Mancha seemingly inspire artists to depict their paintings. Artistes of the Academy of Manipuri Culture and Arts set off the eighth day's (March 1) proceedings with displaying several Manipuri dance pieces.

Versatile singer Priyanka Gope began her performance of raga based Bangla songs with a Shipra Basu classic “Jamuna Ki Bolte Pare” after which “Nayone Nayone Keno Nayon Rakho” followed. The colours and connotations of Spring was evident in the rendition of her next two songs “Bosone Lagate Rong” and “Dokhino Batas Aji Bohe Mridu Monde”.

Priyanka then performed a Begum Akhtar song “Phiraye Dio Na Mor-e” and several original songs -- “Etodin Pore Tomaye”, “Ekhon Tokhon” and “Sur-e Sur-e Dekha Hobe”.

Renowned Tagore singer Bulbul Islam superbly offered several Tagore songs from various parjaye. The singer started off with a Swadesh paryae song “O Amar Desh-er Mati”. Bulbul Islam performed the songs --“Akash Bhora Surjo Tara”, “Amar Mallika Bon-e”, “Bhalobashi Bhalobashi” and “Krishnakoli”. The artiste also presented the melodic essence of a Tagore poem “Dui Pakhi” at the festival.

Noted Indian singer Jayati Chakraborty captivated the audience with her performance of Rabindra Sangeet together with adhunik and folk songs at the event. She set off with a Tagore song “Tomaye Gaan Shonabo” and received rounds of applause with performing songs like “Bhalo Achhi Bhalo Theko” and “Mon Majhi Rey Sohag Chand Bashe Jamunaye”. Jayati's presentation of a Goalpara folk song “Mahut Bondhu Rey” was a treat to the music lovers. She was effortless in her performance of a Jhumur song, and a Radharaman Dutta number “Bhromor Koiyo Giya” as she offered Tagore songs -- “Sakhi Bhabona Kaharey Bol-e”, “Bhalobeshe Sakhi” and “Tumi Kon Kanoner Phul”. The singer also rendered the adhunik songs -- “Tumi Je Amar” and “Tomake Bolbo Kichhu Na Bola Kotha” and wrapped up her performance with a Pratul Mukhopadhyay song “Ami Banglaye Gaan Gai”.

The festival, dedicating to Gyantapas Abdur Razzaq, concludes today. A symposium on architecture titled “Agamir Sylhet” starts this morning at 10:30am. Renowned architects of Bangladesh will take part in the symposium as panelists while the musical performance will start at 4pm at Hason Raja Mancha. Alongside, film screening will begin at 4pm and staging of a theatre production “Mohajon-er Nao” by Subachan Natya Sangsad will commence at 7:15pm at Syed Mujtaba Ali Mancha.