2017-03-09 00:00:00+06:00
Appreciating women's crowning glories
When envisioning challenging sports such as lathiyaal, archery and horse-racing, one cannot help but imagine men helming these fields. However, at an International Women's Day event held at Chhayanaut's auditorium on March 7, organised by Prothom Alo, the glass ceiling was shattered as young girls and women were brought forward on stage, awarded for their accomplishments in those fields. The event highlighted their victorious tales as they struggled against convention to achieve their dreams.

The auditorium was packed with women of all ages, with prominent women's rights activists in attendance, along with Prothom Alo Editor Matiur Rahman and Associate editor and eminent writer Anisul Huq. Hameeda Hossain, Rounaq Jahan, Salma Khan, Salma Ali, Wahida Banu, Maleka Begum, Sadya Afreen Mallick and Audity Mohsin were present at the event, and were called on stage to share their thoughts on gender issues. Shomapti Rai, a visually impaired singer stood alongside the prominent female figures and performed a few lines of the song “Tora Je Ja Bolish Bhai.” Feature editor of Prothom Alo Sumona Sharmin compered the programme.

The programme commenced with a musical performance by Abonti Shithi, who rendered “Jekhane Shimanto Tomar” and “Amra Korbo Joy.” This was followed by a film screening documenting the journey of lathiyaal Ruponti Chowdhury. This was followed by the appearance of Hira and Bonnya, who won the gold and silver medals respectively at Dhaka International Archery Competition. Then came a film screening the tale of Tasmina from Noaga, who was made the subject of the documentary “Tasmina: The Horse Girl.” Prothom Alo awarded her a horse of her own, which she named after the daily. All four girls were presented with bouquets by State Minister of Women and Children Affairs Meher Afroz Chumki.

Prothom Alo Editor Matiur Rahman recounted the harrowing stories of two acid attack survivors, Marzia Akhtar from Gazipur and Musammat Shamima from Jhenidah, and the progresses they have made today. Musammat attended the programme, who dreams of being an internationally renowned fashion designer.

The event concluded with riveting performances by Joler Gaan, who paid a tribute to the recently deceased Kalika Prasad Bhattacharya during their performance.