2017-03-25 00:00:00+06:00
BRACU holds soiree of patriotic songs
With the advent of the month of Independence reinvigorating the spirit of patriotism and celebrations, BRAC University (BRACU) organised a programme on Thursday, where students and teachers sang Bangla songs and poems that resonate the spirit of patriotism and independence. .

The programme, titled “Desh, Mati o Shwadhinatar Gaan” was held at the Brac University Auditorium as part of their regular Bangla musical programmes aimed at igniting cultural awareness among the students by highlighting the rich musical heritage of Bangla songs.

Vice Chancellor of the University, Prof. Dr. Syed Saad Andaleeb inaugurated the programme and called upon students and faculty members to come forward and engage with their cultural heritage and values. The programme was also attended by a large number of students and faculty members of the university.

He also said the aim was not only to please the auditory senses but also to know the history associated with each song and their creators. This will help to uphold the traditions of Bangla poems and music among BRACU students and remind them about the rich cultural heritage of Bangladesh, he said.

Pointing out that such practices also promote religious tolerance and creates unbiased, better human beings, he hoped to organise similar events every semester.

The students of the University rendered nine songs, which included patriotic songs of Pancha-Kobi and others. The songs were “Aji Bangladesher Hridoy Hote”, “Dhono Dhanno Pushpo Bhora”,”Bongo Amar Jononi Amar”, “Moder Gorob Moder Asha”, “Eki Oporup Rupe Ma Tomay”, “Amar Desher Matir Gondhe”, “Ma Go Bhabna Keno”, “Teer Hara Ei Dheuyer Sagor” and “Purbo Digonte Surjo Uthechhe”.

Aside from the students, Dalia Nawsheen, an artiste of the Swadhin Bangla Musical Troupe and renowned Nazrul Sangeet exponent, also performed at the programme as a guest artiste. The event was coordinated by Dr. Sharmind Neelotpol, Asst. Prof. of Pharmacy Dept of the University and supported by Simantic Creative Concern as the event management partner.