2017-04-02 00:00:00+06:00
Episode 12: The Mughal Meal
For far too long, Nazmul Haque had been considered to be in the shadow of his wife, Asma Rupa. The first Super Chef couple who were competing in the kitchen, many thought Nazmul had only come this far because of his wife. Asma was a veteran competitor in the kitchen and had gone quite far in the last edition of the competition. However, when the Mughal episode was announced, there was a change in the air. Every notion anyone had of Nazmul was about to change forever.

Nazmul Haque came to the Super Chef kitchen as a 30 year old restaurateur. A man of impeccable manners, Nazmul's ambitions weren't a reflection of anyone else's. He wanted to prove himself and go beyond whatever people thought of him. A self-taught chef -- while Asma would spend her days thinking of the next challenge in the kitchen -- Nazmul was equally focused on his business, thinking of nothing only winning the competition but making his restaurant better. As the days went on, Nazmul managed to stick around and soon people started taking him as a threat too. The Mughal challenge solidified all of that in one fluid motion.

Lux-Channel i Super Star Badhon was the celebrity guest for this episode. But what stole the show was the theme of the day, Mughal. The judges were all decked out in royal Mughal robes. The participants were given a Mughal-day primer of sorts. They were taught to present their dishes mimicking the days of the royal court, approaching the judges and addressing them as “samrat” or “badshah”. Chef Daniel looked dapper in a long coat with the frills on the shirt and Sharmin Lucky looked absolutely gorgeous in her Mughal day sari. How anyone managed to pay attention to their dish was indeed the question of the day.

While the setting was regal indeed, the challenge remained ruthless. This would be a three-tier challenge. The first would be individual cook-offs. Given that no eliminations had taken place in the past few days, the participants could be seen relaxing. They were pretty certain that there would be no eliminations this episode either. While they were partially right, it was no time to rest on their laurels. Nazmul benefited from this lack of complacency, preparing three different coloured kebabs that won the judges over and gave him top spot. Maymuma followed him into to safe zone. The remaining few were split into two teams of four. Their challenge was to make a full course Mughal spread. The losing team would find themselves on the brink of elimination.

But who will win and who won't is a judgement that is left for today. Tune in tonight sharp at 9:00pm on ntv to find out. Also look out for an old face. Tonight marks the return of someone completely unexpected. Why is this familiar face back? What does he or she want? Find out tonight!