2017-04-03 00:00:00+06:00
“It's definitely a praiseworthy initiative by the government” - Riaz
National Film Award-winning actor Riaz came into the spotlight soon after the demise of Dhallywood heartthrob Salman Shah, and led numerous mainstream commercial movies in the late 90s, 2000s and beyond. Although Riaz has recently shifted his focus to the small screen, he still has big dreams about the country's cinema. The popular star talked about the National Film Day and the industry in a recent chitchat with The Daily Star. Excerpts:

What is your opinion of the National Film Day?



Riaz:April 3 was declared as National Film Day and it is definitely a praiseworthy initiative of the government. While this is a positive step for Dhaka cinema, it would be great if we could celebrate our cinema every day.

How do you think the film industry can do better?



Riaz:We can do so many things to promote the industry. The industry cannot be hostage to any individual. After releasing a movie, we have to ensure its screening in all theatres across the country. The most important task is to stop piracy and this needs technical support. And then there is the question of improving our theatres. Finally, we have to make quality films to draw cine-goers' attention.

Do you think that the quality of films has improved in recent times?



Riaz:Yes, but more needs to be done on this front. When better films become a more regular feature, audiences will throng the halls automatically. Basically, we have to highlight the script of the films because viewers always want a good script.

What other steps do you feel are needed for the development of the film industry?



Riaz:First and foremost, we need a film institute. Although many universities have started courses on filmmaking, we need an independent institute. Technical knowledge is a must for a good production.

How do you feel about the Kolkata films flooding our theatres?



Riaz:Their films, serials and artistes are dominating the market, but the question is how are we benefiting from this? You have to think about your own culture first and then of others.