2017-04-03 00:00:00+06:00
Elaborate programmes to mark National Film Day today
The Bangladesh Film Development Corporation (BFDC) is celebrating National Film Day (April 3) with elaborate programmes in the capital today, under an initiative of the Information Ministry.

Information Minister Hasanul Haq Inu will inaugurate the programmes at 10:30am at BFDC premises, along with Nayak Raj Razzak, chairman of the National Film Day organising committee. Members of the film industry will then bring out a rally from the BFDC premises.

A seminar on “The current presentation and screening method is the biggest obstacle to the development of our cinema” will be held at 3pm. Industries Minister Amir Hossain Amu will be the chief guest at the seminar. Other guests include Information Minister Hasanul Haq Inu, member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on the Information Ministry Sukumar Ranjan Ghosh and Information Ministry secretary Mortuza Ahmed. Former chief information officer of the Information Commission Dr. Md. Jahangir Hossain will present a paper, while RAB Director General Benzir Ahmed will be special discussant. Other discussants will include Mushfiqur Rahman Gulzar, Khorshed Alam Khosru and Iftekhar Uddin Nowshad. BFDC managing director Tapan Kumar Ghosh will chair the session.

Mohammad Hossain Jemy will host a talk show from 5:15pm, after which a cultural programme will be held from 7:45pm. Prominent film stars Omar Sani, Mahiya Mahi, Amit Hasan, Pori Moni, Ferdous, Bobby, Emon, Nusraat Faria, Nirob, Misha Sawdagar, Purnima and Moushumi, among others will perform at the programme. Hridoy Khan, Kona, Ankhi Alamgir, Konal, Samina Chowdhury, Kumar Bishwajit and others will also sing at the event.

BFDC will be abuzz with other activities throughout the day, which has been named “Tarar Mela”, including publication of a souvenir, red carpet, a fair, photo exhibition and other festive arrangements. ATN Bangla will broadcast the entire day's events live from 10am to 9:50pm.

On April 3, 1957, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the erstwhile Minister of Industries and Commerce of East Pakistan, introduced the East Pakistan Film Development Corporation Bill at the Constituent Assembly. To mark that day, April 3 is observed every year as National Film Day in Bangladesh since 2012.