2017-04-06 00:00:00+06:00
Paeans to Shameem Ara Nipa
On receiving Shameem Ara Nipa's Ekushey Padak, the country's second highest civilian award, renowned dance school Nrityanchal organised a felicitation programme at Dhaka Club on April 4. Dance artistes, singers, cultural personalities, celebrities and Cultural Affairs Minister Asaduzzaman Noor attended the programme, greeted her with bouquets and spoke highly of the dancer-choreographer.

“We are honoured to confer Ekushey Padak on Shameen Ara Nipa, a dedicated, immensely talented and deserving artiste,” said Asaduzzaman Noor. In response to a request of making a suitable dance stage by Anisul Islam Hero, the minister informed all of starting the construction work of the proposed stage at Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy by the middle of this year.

Eminent artist and cultural personality Mustafa Monwar; eminent singer Ferdausi Rahman, famous actress Kabori, noted Nazrul Sangeet artistes -- Sadya Afreen Mallick and Professor Nashid Kamal; renowned dance artistes -- Amanul Haque, Laila Hasan, Zeenat Barkatullah, Kajal Ibrahim and Professor Mahua Mukherjee [of Kolkata, India], eminent theatre personality Ataur Rahman, president of Sammilito Sangskritik Jote Golam Kuddus and noted TV personality Mohammad Barkatullah extended their good wishes to Nipa and shared fond memories with her, especially while they went abroad to represent Bangladesh through their arts.

Celebrity actors -- Ferdaus and Purnima; singers -- Ankhi Alamgir and Dinat Jahan Munni; songwriter Kabir Bakul and a host of dancers led by Mahfuzur Rahman, general secretary of Bangladesh Nrityashilpi Sangstha, among others, expressed their happiness at the conferment of the award on Nipa.

The celebration started with a vivacious dance display set to a Tagore song “Akash Bhora Surja Tara” by Nrityanchal artistes. The floral set coupled with the changing shades of light added an aesthetic dimension to the programme.

The magnificent cake, decorated with dancing figures and motifs of dance mudra together with the patriotic essence of red and green, enthralled those present.

Muhammad Jahangir, coordinator of Nrityanchal, welcomed all and hosted the first half of the programme, while co-director of Nrityanchal Shibli Mohammad hosted the latter half of the event.

“I along with my family am so elated that Nipa received the award, making us all so proud,” said Shibli Mohammad. The event came to an end with a presentation of a poem by noted elocutionist Dahlia Ahmed.