2017-04-08 00:00:00+06:00
Colourful Biju programmes begin in Rangamati
Rangamati Hill District Council organised different colourful program on the occasion of Biju on Thursday in Rangamati. Biju marks a host of celebrations of the indigenous people to usher in the New Year.

A rally was held in the afternoon from Rangamati College gate premises to Rangamati Cultural Institute. Barrister Raja Debasish Roy, Chakma circle chief; Brisho Ketu Chakma, chairman, Rangamati Hill District Council; Md Golam Faruk, Brigadier Commander of Rangamati Army; Santona Chakma, member of Rangamati Hill District Council and representatives of different indigenous communities joined the procession. Later, different cultural programmes were held by different indigenous communities.

The entire hilly district of the Chittagong Hill Tracts is in a festive mood to welcoming Biju, Boisu, Bishu, Bihu and Sangrai – all of them the indigenous cultures' adaptations of the Bangla New Year.

Indigenous people belonging to different communities say goodbye to the past year and celebrate the New Bangla Year with new hopes through various colourful programmes. The Chakma call it Biju, Tanchangya call it Bishu, Tripura call it Boisu and Marma call it Sangrai.

For Chakmas, the first day's celebration starts with Ful Biju. At the Ful Biju, Chakma people get up early, clean their houses and decorate them with flowers, and float flowers in rivers, canals and springs to seek blessings of God for peace and prosperity. Then in the evening time, they go to Buddhist temples and light candles.

The second day is called Mul Biju, when a special kind of delicacy called the 'pachon' is cooked. The last day, known as Goijja Pojjya Din, is a day spent by the Chakmas mostly relaxing.

Meanwhile, Bangladesh Adibasi Forum, CHT arranged programmes on the occasion from April 9-12, with a colorful procession to be brought out in Rangamati town.

The three-day programmes will be observed through events such as Ful Vajana, Ghila Khela, Boli Khela etc. The events will be held at Rangamati stadium.

A water festival, one of the most popular events of the Marma community during the season, will take place at Betbunia High School under Khaukhali upazila of Rangamati district on April 16.