2017-04-14 00:00:00+06:00
Children's Baishakhi fair begins at Fulki
Like previous years, through colourful arrangements, a three-day children's Baishakhi fair titled “Chhotoder Baishakhi Mela” opened at Fulki premises in the port city on Wednesday evening.

With an aim to spread Bangalee culture among the young minds, Fulki, an alternative educational institute in Chittagong, organised the fair featuring solo and group performances like folk, local and traditional songs, dances and recitations from famous poets and showcasing creative works of kids.

Popular writer and journalist Anisul Hoque inaugurated the fair as the chief guest. Fulki Principal Shila Momen and poet Abul Momen also addressed the programme.

On the occasion, little kids, students of Fulki and guardians assembled at Fulki premises since afternoon. Several stalls named “Khela Mela”, Kutum Katam”, “Boi Mela” were also installed at the premises to showcase different creative works, paintings, handicrafts, toys and innovations of kids.

Anisul Hoque in his inaugural speech said the forces of darkness try to drive out light. It is not possible to fight the force through sword. Through only kindling light, it is possible to fight darkness.

“If we involve ourselves in reading books, playing and practicing culture, then the whole country would be filled up with light”, said Anisul Hoque. “If adolescent and young minds wake up, Bangladesh will wake up,” he added.

Poet Abul Momen said, “We all have to congregate irrespective of creed, cast and religion in the days of festivals to fight evil forces.”

Fulki Principal Shila Momen in her speech expressed her gratitude to all kids, guests and guardians for participating at the festival and fair.

The first segment of the inaugural programme started with a choral rendition of Rabindranath Tagore's song “Tumi Je Surer Agun Lagiye Dile” by the students of Sonartari, a cultural school of Fulki.

Later, students from 'Bishmoy', “Ananda”, “Mugdha” and Srishti” presented several choral songs ranging Narul, Rabindra and folk.

The little ones successively performed the songs “Shukno Patar Nurpur Paye” from Nazrul, a Khayal in Raga Bageshri, “Monjuri o Monjuri” and “Amar Pothe Pothe”.

The group dance performance with the song “Dhitang Dhitang Bole” enchanted the audience.

The first segment of the inaugural programme ended with



the choral rendition “Esho Hey Baishakh”.

Fulki teacher Zinat Islam emceed the programme.