2017-04-16 00:00:00+06:00
The Baishakh Challenge decides top nine
The spirit of Baishakh invokes a feeling of communal harmony in the golden land of Bengal. In the Super Chef kitchen though, even the beginning of a new year starts with a competition. Last night was no different as the Baishakh special episode of Rupchanda-The Daily Star Super Chef kicked off with elimination looming towards the end. Many hurdles had been crossed and from over 2000 participants, only 10 were remaining. Last night, the number was whittled down to nine. The farewell was heart-breaking, an emotion soon supplanted by the promise of a coming redemption.

The festivities began when the remaining 10 were split into two different teams. The challenge was to cook a Baishakh special. While the premise sounds simple enough, creating a cohesive team unit in the short time given is much more challenging than presenting a finished course. As the teams were divided, the judges observed that the husband-wife duo of Asma Rupa and Nazmul Haque had yet again managed to be on the same team. “Do you plan to end up in the same team every time?” a judge queried. But both Nazmul and Asma maintained that it was pure chance and nothing else.

A parade of bhortas in ceramic pots and plates soon made their way to the judges. Given the plethora of options, it was never going to be an easy choice. But a choice had to be made. Nazmul and Asma found themselves on the side that came second best and them, along with three of their teammates, found themselves in the danger zone. To determine who would be the one to go, a cook-off was arranged. “If you could sacrifice yourself to save your husband, would you?” someone whispered to Asma. The 24-year old went on front of live TV to declare that she wouldn't. “We both know this is a competition and whatever our relationship is, it is outside of this competition. I will not sacrifice my place for him and nor expect him to give up his place for me,” she said.

The cook-off comprised of an aachar challenge. While the rest chose to work with easier ingredients, Asma and Nazmul both went for the more tedious elephant apple or chalta as it is called. Unbeknownst to everyone involved, Nazmul had never actually prepared an achaar in his entire life. However, he tried and he tried as hard as he could. But as the Super Chef competition edges closer to the finish line, mistakes are never forgiven and there is no room for unpreparedness. Nazmul's name was announced to be the one eliminated. As Nazmul fell to the floor, his hands on his head, distraught, Asma broke down instantly too. For a moment in time, the competition was forgotten. The world had left Asma and Nazmul alone. They said their farewell. He wished her well. And everyone, with a heart, shed tears with them. That ended last night's episode. Catch the one tonight, only on Ntv. More heart-breaks and triumphs yet to come.