2015-07-26 00:00:05+06:00
A novel insulin analogue for treating Diabetes Mellitus
Diabetes is a progressive disease which only can be compared with atom bomb which should be defused within time. Diabetes mellitus (DM), commonly referred to as diabetes, is a group of metabolic diseases in which there are high blood sugar levels over a prolonged period. Symptoms of high blood sugar include frequent urination, increased thirst, and increased hunger. If left untreated, diabetes can cause many complications.

The current scenario is not quite up to the mark which keep consistently compel us to urging to a fearful state. According to IDF (International Diabetes Federation), there were 5.9 million cases of diabetes in Bangladesh in 2014. The figure is expected to be doubled by 2030.

There are three main types of diabetes mellitus: Type 1 DM results from the pancreas' failure to produce enough insulin. This form was previously referred to as "insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus" (IDDM) or "juvenile diabetes". Type 2 DM begins with insulin resistance, a condition in which cells fail to respond to insulin properly. As the disease progresses a lack of insulin may also develop. This form was previously referred to as "non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus" (NIDDM). Gestational diabetes is the third main form and occurs when pregnant women without a previous history of diabetes develop a high blood sugar level.

Insulin is the medication which was continuously being used to treating diabetic patient since 1922. After crossing so many stages like: bovine insulin, human insulin, NPH insulin, now new generation insulin analogues are being used. Latest innovation in this filed is a new generation co–formulation analogue insulin Ryzodeg®. This insulin is the novel combination of a true basal insulin degludec and short acting (bolus) insulin aspart, which consisting two different insulins in a simple device unlike other premix insulins. This can provide the efficacy of reducing HbA1c (Glycated haemoglobin is a form of hemoglobin that is measured primarily to identify the average plasma glucose concentration over prolonged periods of time), reducing hypoglycaemia (fall of blood sugar level) and nocturnal hypoglycaemia and providing a simple regimen compared to others.

The writer is a Director of BIRDEM Academy.