None
Leave Nam flats if not staying there, PM to MPs
The prime minister, Sheikh Hasina, on Saturday said the members of parliament who are not living in the allotted Nam flats to quit those, or else they will be left out of the allotment list.

‘The MPs must live in the Nam flats with their families. Those who are not living in the flats but got the allotment will be left out of the list,’ she said.

The prime minister was inaugurating newly constructed residential buildings for the officials and employees of Bangladesh Jatiya Sangbad secretariat at Sher-e Bangla Nagar in the city.

She said that those MPs who will not stay in the Nam flats have the option to stay at Nakhalpara MP Hostel. ‘Leave the Nam flats,’ she said.

The prime minister, also the leader of the House, said she has the information that some MPs gave the Nam flats to other people for staying there. ‘You (MPs) will put your men, driver, servants and officials in those flats...this (illegal stay) can't be allowed,’ she said.

These MPs, the prime ministers said, can live in Nakhalpara MP Hostel which also constructed by the government for them.

Hasina said the outsiders who are living in the Nam flats never care about the maintenance of the flats. It cannot be that the government will carry out the maintenance and repair works time and again. ‘We'll collect money from the MPs if the flats need repair next time.’

Hasina asked the chief whip to take necessary steps to realise fine for causing any damage to different parts of the Nam flats from the MPs concerned to repair that, and sought opinion of the Speaker in this regard.

‘I raised the issue at the Awami League parliamentary party meeting. Now I'm talking about it publicly, I'm saying this to the chief whip, if he doesn't take steps, then I'll take steps for him,’ she said.

Housing and public works ministry constructed the Nam buildings with all modern facilities which have a total of 448 flats in 2001.

Speaker Shirin Sharmin Chaudhury and chief Whip ASM Feroz were present on the dais.

Prime minister Sheikh Hasina also directed the authorities concerned to put due importance to proper maintenance of the Jatiya Sangsad saying it is the centre of all activities.

‘Jatiya Sangsad has a very special importance as it is worldwide known as one of the finest architectural structures and all concerned of the Parliament Secretariat should play due role in properly maintaining it,’ she said.

Expressing her resentment over water stagnation on Jatiya Sangsad floors, the leader of the house issued strong warning against the officials concerned asking them to be careful from now on so that such incident does not happen in the future.

Hasina said necessary manpower and budget are there for the maintenance purpose, but there is negligence of the employees concerned.

She also urged all concerned to be very much careful so that public property and government establishments built with public money are not damaged or used in unproductive manner.

Saying that her government is setting up health clinics and complexes at unions, while hospitals at upazila level and universities at district levels, Hasina emphasised taking care of every part of these establishments.

She expressed satisfaction over peaceful observance of the Pahela Baishakh on Friday and thanked law enforcement agencies for maintaining the law and order across the country.

Chaired by housing and public works minister Mosharraf Hossain, the function was also addressed by speaker Shirin Sharmin Chaudhury, chief whip ASM Feroz and senior secretary of the Jatiya Sangbad secretariat Mohammad Abdur Rob Hawlader.

Ministers, deputy speaker Fazle Rabbi Mia, chairmen of the parliamentary standing committee of different ministries, parliament members and senior officials of the government were present.