2015-04-07 00:00:00+06:00
Welcoming fashion brand Sailor
A new fashion and lifestyle brand, Sailor, has recently been launched to bring the latest fashion trends and high quality outfits to Bangladesh. This is Epyllion Group's first venture in the retail industry and it has something for everyone, with outfits ranging from western, ethnic to fusion wear. Imported fashion accessories will also be available at Sailor's two outlets at Jamuna Future Park and at Rangs KB Square, Satmasjid Road, Dhanmondi.

The brand was launched with an opening ceremony and fashion show on 3 April, 2015 at North Court, Jamuna Future Park. Another opening ceremony was held at Rangs KB Square on 4 April, 2015.

Bangladeshi super model Asif Azim, the brand ambassador of Sailor, was present at the press briefing on 2 April and walked the ramp at the fashion show held on 3 April. Reaz Uddin Al-Mamoon, Managing Director, Kishwar Jahan, Director, Shaheen Parvez, Deputy General Manager, Operation, and Rezaul Kabir, Assistant General Manager, Business Development of Epyllion Group were also present at the press briefing.

The fashion brand's theme is “Sailing through life” and is intended to inspire people to be ready for any challenges in life, just like a sailor. The export quality fabrics and trend-setting cuts of each of Sailor's outfits are expected to win the hearts of fashion conscious people. The outfits are categorised in different labels to cater to the needs of different segments of customers.

The Black label has classy and luxurious formal outfits for men and women. The Orange label reflects the vibrancy of the youth and has outfits best suited for casual hangouts with designs inspired from the twenty-first century. The exclusive Heritage label has outfits reviving the traditional roots of our country. Finally, the Green label has outfits for the little ones with designs depicting their carefree and youthful spirits.

For PohelaBoishakh, Sailor has special offers available until 30 April, 2015. Customers can get up to 100 per cent discount by winning a scratch card. Moreover, purchasing products of a minimum Tk 5000 will make you an exclusive Sailor club member and you can get a yearlong discount of 10 per cent. This offer is applicable to the first 1000 customers.

Experience fashion like never before with Sailor. Get the trendiest of outfits at its outlets located and regular updates, follow on them Facebook at facebook.com/clothings.sailor.