2015-04-28 00:00:00+06:00
CALL of the cocoa
CHARLIE and the Chocolate Factory introduced us to a world where rivers of chocolate exist and the rich, dark taste of this delicacy can be found in every consistency and variety imaginable. No wonder children love Roald Dahl, he knew exactly what we love.

This love for chocolate has only taken on more shapes, from the plain Dairy Milks of our childhood to the gradual branching out of personal preference – be it dark chocolate, milk chocolate or white chocolate.

It would not be a stretch to say that chocolate makes any food infinitely better; chocolate cakes, mousse, pie – you name it, there's chocolate in every form for every palate. And fortunately, chocolate can be good for health, so the next time you are munching down, you have an excuse.

Despite its bad reputation for causing weight gain, there are a number of health benefits associated with this bitter treat made popular by the Swiss. Today, the potential benefits of eating chocolate are said to include: lowering cholesterol levels, preventing cognitive decline, and reducing the risk of cardiovascular problems.

LDL is the bad kind of cholesterol – the kind that is responsible for those doctor visits and medical fees. Good news is that research shows, eating chocolate regularly can actually reduce LDL cholesterol levels and improve blood pressure. Another great benefit from the regular consumption of chocolate is that it may be active in keeping the brain healthy and prevent memory decline in older people.

Dark chocolate specifically has been seen to have great health benefits. Taken in moderation, the soluble fibre and minerals in dark chocolate are helpful for the body. The stimulant contained in dark chocolate can be helpful in achieving the energy boost needed on tiresome days as an alternative to coffee or tea.

For some, anti-oxidants are very important. So the fact that cocoa and dark chocolate have a wide variety of powerful antioxidants, way more than most other foods, should come as a pleasant surprise.

Of course, this doesn't mean consuming a tonne of chocolate every day is good. Chocolate is loaded with calories and easy to overeat.

A square or two after dinner to savour the taste is the way to go rather than munching down on the whole bar. Choose quality stuff and if you like the taste, the best option is organic, dark chocolate with 70 percent or higher cocoa content.

But it is not all bad news for whom dark chocolate is just too bitter and white chocolate is the answer. White chocolate is simply cocoa butter plus some added milk, while dark chocolate is cocoa butter with (dark) cocoa particles added instead of milk. While cocoa butter doesn't have nearly as many health benefits as dark chocolate, it's been shown to benefit platelet function and potentially atherogenesis more than dark chocolate in men.

Plus, compared to dark chocolate, white chocolate needs much less sugar to mask bitterness. It complements flavours and can be used in dishes instead of dark chocolate to give it a mildly sweet chocolaty taste. So depending on what you palate desires, lose the guilt, get a bar, and munch your (but in moderation) to a healthy life. As the American cartoonist, Charles M. Schulz said, “All you need is love. But a little chocolate now and then doesn't hurt.”

Complied by LS Desk

Photo: Collected