2015-04-28 00:00:00+06:00
Behind the scenes of Super Chef
RUPCHANDA-THE DAILY STAR Super Chef has already taken the country by storm. Three episodes in and the show is building a healthy fan following. One of the most talked about reality shows of this year, Rupchanda-The Daily Star Super Chef is setting the standards for all to follow. However, achieving this wasn't easy and a lot of hard work went behind the entire process. Starting this week, Star Lifestyle will be publishing a series of articles that chronicle the whole event, from start till the very end. This will be your backstage pass to all the action that happened, on and off the camera. Here, we will also delve deeper into the lives of the participants, their journey and their backgrounds. Here, we will tell all and introduce our readers to the world of reality TV.

We'll start off with the very first day at FDC, even before the cameras had rolled. Controlled chaos would have been a fitting description for what was happening. The participants congregated on the set and waited for the lights and sound to be set up. Cameras were being placed and angles were being discussed. Saniat S. Hossain, the creative director stood explaining what was about to come to the participants. Naziba Basher, the MC, was getting her final instructions from the director, Wahidul Islam Shuvrow. In the background, the event management team of Market Access, or MAPL as they are known, was fixing all last minute hiccups. Mrs. Shaheda Yesmin, founder, Jewel's Kitchen, Mr. Syed Tazammul Huq Tareq, Executive Chef, Watercress Restaurant and renowned actor Mr.Tarik Anam Khan, the three judges soon arrived and briefed the participants a little on what they were supposed to do and what they would be judged on. The pantry was then opened and the participants were given a few minutes to familiarise themselves with the ingredients available and decide what they wanted to cook. They were then given thirty minutes to cook.

The 60 participants were divided into groups. Each group was required to cook one after the other. One of the first to receive the apron, Nadim, attracted a lot of attention, because of his cooking style. He was deft and masterly in his skill, exuding more confidence than anyone else. “I can cook with my eyes blind-folded and one hand tied,” he boasted at the camera. Many wondered if they were seeing the birth of the Muhammad Ali of the culinary world. Right opposite him, Umme Kulsum, yet another participant to receive the apron, impressed the judges with her dish but they also praised her cooking style, which was described as being 'clinically efficient'. Perhaps one of the finest doctors in the making, Umme Kulsum approached her cooking like she approached her profession; every move of hers seemed measured and when she cooked she seemed lost to the rest of the world. So deep did she delve in her cooking, her passion was evident just seeing her cook.

Each group, after completing their cooking presented their dishes to the judges. Yes, No, Yes, and Yes, Yes, Yes was the most sought after combinations expected from the judges. However, many met one too many Nos and their journeys ended right there. While some were disheartened, most considered this to be a learning experience and promised to improve so as to not let the next opportunity pass by. Each participant, whether they made it or did not, had very interesting stories to tell. In the following weeks we will be exploring these stories in depth. And we won't just be looking out for the stories of the participants, but we will also learn about the people behind the show, the judges and of course discuss the bloopers. Tune into NTV every Sunday and Friday at 9:00 pm to catch the show and be sure to check out the next issue of Star Lifestyle when we really start telling the stories.