2015-05-26 00:00:00+06:00
Super Chef Of heartbreaks and wounded warriors
Last week's team challenge and elimination round really brought the competition alive. Each of the participants were seen buzzing around, planning the next of their moves. When the dust had settled, Jebunessa had come out on top, setting quite a bar for the others. The day after the team challenge, participants were thrown back into singles challenge. This time they were handed chicken and mustard oil as key ingredients to use. The 'Jadoor Baksho' challenge this time around was harder than the one before it. How many recipes could one prepare with chicken? And if one's dish was not unique enough, then they would stand no chance to win.

Navid expressed frustration when he noticed that there were hardly any seasonings available. This added another element to the challenge. “I do not know what to make without any seasoning available!” Navid said. Farzina, his wife, decided to come with the best she could. She could be seen focused as much as before.

Umme Kulsum, Jebunessa, Nadim, Sakib and the rest all tried to be as unique as possible. However, as the dishes were served before the judges, one by the one, they expressed some dissatisfaction with each.

Chef Tazammul, executive chef of Watercress, declared the dishes to be the worst of the competition. Navid knew he had to redeem himself and he tried with a 'deshi' 'koral maacher korma.' But Umme Kulsum came right after him and stole the round perhaps with her innovation, as she presented a pancake.

Jebunessa remained in the safe zone once again, further solidifying her reputation as a Super Chef. Nusrat, Sakib, Marufa and Nadim found themselves as the four participants among whom two would be eliminated.

Nusrat's fish pasta was criticised for adding too many 'deshi' ingredients despite it being a 'deshi' dish while Marufa and Nadim were both asked to not experiment too much. Finally, Navid and Nusrat were eliminated.

Navid expressed satisfaction with the entire programme and said that this was about being the fittest and perhaps he was not currently the fittest. Right before Navid bid farewell, a wounded Farzina, who cut her hand during the challenge had a hard time saying good bye.

“He is still my Super Chef,” she declared. Yes, Farzina too suffered a heartbreak as her husband had to leave the competition. As she cut her hand, she changed her entire dish so as not to aggravate her injury further. Her cool head again came to the fore but how will she fare in the following rounds? Will she prevail or will she falter? Find out as the Super Chef challenges get harder and the crown comes closer.

Next up comes yet another team challenge and this team challenge has been one of the most dramatic ones. Wounded warriors, politics and straight up anger boils over in the very next episode of Rupchanda-The Daily Star Super Chef 2015. If you haven't seen the episode, then perhaps its time that you do.

Go to https://3rdbell.com/ to view all aired episodes of Rupchanda-The Daily Star Super Chef 2015 and find the answers to your questions!

Photo: Rabby Islam