2015-06-02 00:00:00+06:00
Building a brigade
“The ultimate test of man's conscience may be his willingness to sacrifice something today for future generations whose words of thanks will not be heard” Gaylord Nelson, former US senator and governor once said. It is this conscience that we need to cultivate - to work selflessly for the betterment of our future generations. And Creative Enlightened Society is one such initiative.

On 22 May, 2015 an orientation course on Child Rights, organised by Creative Enlightened Society, was held at Flat A5, Sky View Heritage, 99 Shantinagar, Dhaka.

The one-day course was an awareness programme where 19 children aged between 15 and 18 were informed of child rights, adverse effects of early marriage, eve teasing, drug abuse and HIV/AIDS.

The training sessions were conducted by Nargis Akhter, Senior Co-ordinator, Ain O Salish Kendra (ASK); Khondker Mahfuzul Haque, former line director and chief, Bureau of Health Education, Directorate General of Health Services; Parveen Akter Rupa, Community Organiser, Prevention of Mother-to Child- HIV Transmission (PMCT), Save the Children; and Lutfe Tahera, President, Creative Enlightened Society.

Tahera has been in the development sector for more than three long decades. Her organisation has an ongoing project at Barail village, in Nabinagar, Brahmanbaria, which runs an awareness and skill development programme. She also a host of 'Mayeder Jonno' a popular BTV programme in the eighties and nineties, raising awareness about family planning and many such vital issues.

At the beginning session, the young students introduced themselves, along with sharing with the rest of the group one dream they wish to fulfil in their life. "I want to do something for the underprivileged children in my neighbourhood," said one. "Before me, many in family were uneducated. I want to ensure that from my generation onwards, everybody will be educated."

Among other notable guests, Tasnim Hassan Hai, Executive Director, Human Resource Foundation, Wahida Banu, Executive Director, Aparajeyo-Bangla and Arzuda Karim, Director, Orion Group of Industries were present in the event.

Certificates were awarded at the end of the programme.

The event was funded through a grant received from the Ministry of Public Administration, People's Republic of Bangladesh. An important part of the programme was the communication training for child-to-child approach.

For Creative Enlightened Society and Sreejoni Training Center, this is only the start. "From this pool of students, I want to build a children's comrade," Tahera informed. With a comrade guided in the right way, the young generation -- and therefore the future -- will surely be a little better.