2015-06-23 00:00:00+06:00
The last four and their battles
By the time you begin reading this, you'll already know that Umme Kulsum has been declared the Rupchanda-The Daily Star Super Chef 2015. However, that doesn't mean there is not much else to know about. Behind the scenes, a lot more happened, which we wish the camera could have captured. Thus, even after Jon Snow's death, one would be more than inclined to read the book. There's always more to everything than that which meets the eye.

The 13th episode of Rupchanda-The Daily Star Super Chef 2015 kicked off with the news that Emma Dean was coming to the Super Chef kitchen. The season 5 winner of Master Chef Australia, Emma Dean was an international celebrity chef that everyone in the Super Chef kitchen was aware of. Thus, all the participants were aware that today they would have to fully use all of their skills and impress the guest judge. Judges Shaheda Yesmin, Tariq Anam and Tazammul Huq were also expecting the chefs to have a good round because tonight reputations were at stake. Umme Kulsum who edged too close to elimination last time around seemed completely focused while Sakib was finally prepared to deliver one of his strongest performances till date.

The backdrop to all this was the ongoing cricket World Cup. However, while the crew would slip away to check on the scores and such, the participants demanded no such respite. In fact, to them, nothing but what happened in the kitchen mattered.

As the mystery box challenge began, the participants went to work immediately. All of them were a little taken aback by the presence of potatoes and beef. However, at the end, almost all had produced stellar dishes, with Sakib finally coming good. In the thike-thakar-lorai, the pressure proved to be too much for Latifa, who just could not carry on her fairy tale journey. Latifa happened to be one of the more low-key participants yet her quiet demeanour had won over quite a few admirers. Her exit was met with a round of applause, acknowledging her participation in the competition. Immediately, the participants were informed that the next challenge would be set by Emma Dean herself. Nadim, Umme Kulsum, Jebunessa and Sakib were the last four left and surviving the next round would mean an automatic 2 lakh taka at the very least.

But Emma Dean's technique would prove to be too much for Sakib. But that wasn't the only thing bugging Sakib. As the date with Emma Dean moved closer, tension began to build. Roommates, Nadim and Sakib began an argument the night before which refused to be diffused. After intervention from the officers of Market Access Providers Limited, NTV and Carrotcom crew along with words from the BEOL officers present the problem was solved. However, grudges remained and would be nurtured next round.

While the show was heading towards a close, it seemed the last few days acted like an elixir for the participants. Emma Dean's presence too was a tonic of sorts, reinvigorating all the participants. How would they fare with Emma's dish? Spoiler alert: the execution will be difficult for all. Watch this space to find out more of what happened and read about the show within the show next week.

By Osama Rahman

Photo: Rabby Islam