2015-06-30 00:00:00+06:00
Sakib's Farewell
As promised, Emma Dean did take over the Super Chef kitchen on the 15th episode of Rupchanda-The Daily Star Super Chef 2015. Proceedings began a night earlier when roommates and competitors Sakib and Nadim had had enough of each other. Whether it was just human nature or done in the spirit of the competition, Nadim apparently had the air cooler on the whole night, turning the room into freezing condition and depriving Sakib of sleep. Nadim denied the allegations but Sakib would tell anyone who was listening what really happened.

Emma Dean, the winner of the fifth season of the Australian Masterchef came prepared, having met each of the four participants the day earlier. Jebunessa seemed nervous with many expecting her lack of expertise in international cuisine to finally become her undoing. Umme Kulsum too did not seem to be at her best. Weeks of competition had drained the participants and it was evident on their faces. Coupled with the fact that they had been far away from their families for so long was really beginning to take its toll and hurt each of the competitors’ performance.

Learning any new dish is never a walk in the park, especially when it is something that uses methods you have never used before in the preparation of something. Emma Dean's choice of recipe was Cold Smoked King Fish Canape. The process would entail making one's own mayonnaise and a biscuit/pastry base.

Not only would all the components have to be made separately but each would have to retain its desired texture to perfection. A hardened or too softened pastry base would probably result in elimination. Thus, the challenge began after Emma had taken the time to show the entire process, explain it to them through the help of Naziba Basher who was on hand to translate the process and finally each participant tasted the end product and went on their way.

Remember, this was elimination so if you did not make it into the safe zone, then you had just missed out on a guaranteed prize money provided you were eliminated. As it went, Sakib could not make his base of the right crunch. With less than 30 minutes left, Sakib suddenly realised that his base was not good enough and he went back to making it all over again. Miraculously, he did manage to end on time. Emma herself exclaimed how amazed she was that Sakib managed to get something on the plate. Unfortunately, it was not enough.

Umme Kulsum, on the other hand, made a stellar presentation and found herself in the safe zone to her relief. The 'tike-thakar-lorai' finally resulted in the elimination of SM Sakib. He broke down explaining how he really needed this competition and the prize money that came along with it. “What will I tell my daughters when I go home? I really wanted to win this competition or at least win something from it,” Sakib said, thoroughly disappointed. The mystery man had finally left the competition. Then, there were three.



Photo: Sharear Kabir Heemel