2015-10-13 00:00:00+06:00
100 percent denim!
A product of chaos that was the California gold rush, denims have survived the test of time and no fashion buff worth his/her salt can now proclaim fashion glory without a pair or two in their wardrobe. What started as a workman's clothes has now become a symbol of vivacity and flamboyance. While it's an expression of youthful exuberance, a blue jeans in reality, is for the evergreen.

With a reputation of 'tailor to the world', denim products make a chunk of our gross readymade garment export, and to boost the return further, a gala fashion show, Denims and jeans, was arranged on 7 October, 2015 at the Radission Blu Garden Hotel.

The ramp sizzled, and burst into excitement as models, showcasing jeans, shirts and everything denim walked the platform. Great music added the punch that was needed to kick-start the evening. The attending guests stared in awe as the versatility of this fabric was showcased in great lengths. Although primarily considered to be exclusively men's wear, the concept of jeans and other denim products as an integral part of the women's ensemble is gaining popularity in Bangladesh, and the fashion show was a testament to that change.

The show, however, was only a part of a two-day long event that brought some of the most important personalities involved with the worldwide denim trade and attempted to foster growth in the apparel industry in Bangladesh. Twenty-eight companies from Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Germany, Turkey, Brazil and China participated in the exhibition to highlight their denim trousers, fabrics and modern machinery.







Another important part of the show was the “Bangladesh Fashion University Student's Contest” where a number of students from different fashion universities in Bangladesh including BUFT, SMUCT, NIFT, etc. participated and brought beautiful designs in denim. These designs were voted upon by the visitors and the final winners will get award from the organisers of Denimsandjeans.com Bangladesh show.

Sandeep Agarwal, initiator of the show, commented “Our endeavour is to ensure that the Denimsandjeans.com Bangladesh show enables to bring increased focus of the international buyers for their denim needs to Bangladesh. The country is already the largest supplier of jeans to the EU and we hope that it will be the largest supplier to many other markets too. Our show aims to help in achieving this objective.”

Deutche Gasellschaft fur Internationale Zusannenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH, which works with the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh, on behalf of the German Federal Ministry Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ), was the technical partner of the event.

By Mannan Mashhur Zarif

Photo: Sazzad Ibne Sayed