2015-12-08 00:00:00+06:00
The Super Chef
Although 23 November was a hartal, it did not deter the culinary enthusiasts of Sylhet to come to Pallabi Community Center and attend the regional round of Rupchanda-The Daily Star Super Chef 2016.

The crowd was a diverse and interesting mix. Case in point: Didarul Islam from Moulovi Bazaar. His is a story that sparks inspiration for all in the gastronomy industry and outside it as well. He joined an eatery as a dishwasher, and gradually, he learned the trade and climbed up the ladder to become a sous chef. Didarul came to this competition with a lot of hope, and commented that the questions in the written test are very essential for anyone who is passionate about cooking.

Unfortunately, he could not make it through. "I will come next year with preparation," Didarul concluded.

After the written test, the selected candidates faced the nerve-wracking challenge of cooking something for the judges within 30 minutes.

The panel of judges for the regional round in Sylhet comprised of Dr Umme Kulsum Chy and Jebun Nessa Khan, who are the winner and the first runners-up of a previous season of Rupchanda-The Daily Star Super Chef.

"I am impressed that even though today is hartal, so many participants joined despite the troubles," Jebun Nessa Khan commented.

However, Dr Umme Kulsum Chy said that the contestants did not fully meet her expectation in terms of innovation. "This is a culinary competition. Normal everyday dishes, especially without any twists, are common recipes. A Super Chef can never overrate the importance being innovative," she opined.

Ripna Begum made ravioli, and she was rather sceptical about her dish.

"I have made this item before, but today I am not fully satisfied with it," she shared her feelings after cooking. "Many of the participants have previous trainings. Therefore, I am quite intimidated. But I am also not someone who folds in times of stress," she added.

Whatever the case, she won the hearts of the judges and got a 'Yes' Card!

Meanwhile, Avhirup, who is an interior designer by profession, cooked chilli chicken. "During the briefing session, I was thinking hard what to cook to impress the judges," he said. And it seems he was successful in achieving that, with the dish boasting a fine balance between being tangy and hot.

"It was a good experience today," he said, while praising the efforts of the organisers.

Jonathon Oscar Gomes owes it to his father for making him passionate about cooking. "My inspiration is my father," Gomes declared. His father is no ordinary man; he is a chef at a very reputed restaurant in Dhaka. "It is he who taught me all about cooking. And I see the way he is, and one day I would like to become like him."

Gomes came out of the audition round victorious. Can Rupchanda-The Daily Star Super Chef take him closer to his goal? Well, we will have to wait find out!

It was also a victorious day for Md Rumon Ahmed. As he came from Moulovi Bazaar during the hartal, he had to shift from one mode of transport to another to reach the venue.

But this did not deter him at all - at least not in terms of scores, since he managed to ace the 'Yes' Card! Perhaps it was the inspiration of his mother. "My motivation for cooking came from seeing my mother work in the kitchen," he said.

Four winners emerged from Sylhet. One drew inspiration from his mother, while another from his father. After all, are not your parents supposed to be the people to look up to? Meanwhile, someone fought successfully against nervousness and intimidation, and someone laid a successful plan to melt the hearts of judges.

And they aced. They are now the best in Sylhet. And they are one step closer to the crown of Super Chef. But they of course have a long way to race forward to.

To get their hands on these lucrative rewards, they have to be absolutely best. So are they the best in Bangladesh? Do any of them have what it takes to be a Super Chef?

Time shall tell.

By M H Haider

Photo: Md Kawsar