2015-12-22 00:00:00+06:00
Little Jewels and a tribute to Anwari Kabir
On the evening of 11 December, 2015 Little Jewels Nursery Infant and Junior School celebrated its 60th anniversary. The event - which was attended by, among others, its alumni, teachers and founding Principal, Anwari Kabir - was held at Hotel Amari Dhaka. The programme was hosted by Justice Syed Refaat Ahmed, who is an alumnus of the school.

The programme started off with a documentary made about the school. The institution is indeed a sparkling jewel, an inspiring success story. The school, which follows the Montessori method of education, started with 56 students and 7 teachers. The institution currently runs in both English and Bengali medium of instructions.

The occasion was not just an anniversary event; it was, in essence, a reunion as well, as it gave the opportunity for many alumni to come together under one roof. Cheers and laughter marked the function as childhood friends caught up with each other.

An activity of the evening involved a few alumni, teachers, parents of students, and other reminiscing their days at the school.

This chapter of the event was a global affair, as alumni from different countries joined in through video conferencing. From confessions of the tricks and antics pulled off to the cherished memories of the founder - principal Anwari Kabir, the evening allowed everyone a walk down the memory lane.

There were also speeches from current students and a choir performance of the anthem of the school. As a sign of gratitude, Anwari Kabir was gifted two commemoratory portraits

All throughout the programme, the name Anwari Kabir popped up numerous times. From the parents to the teachers to the alumni, everybody had something heart-touching to say about her. Being a social worker, a philanthropist and of course the figurehead of the school, she had touched the lives of countless many, who remain deeply indebted to her.

Therefore, the event was, fundamentally, a platform for the devoted to express their gratitude to this living legend.

With the undying spirit of the compassionate and hardworking Anwari Kabir, may the school live to see many more years!

By M H Haider