2016-01-12 00:00:00+06:00
The stars of our time
Nattyoshova is an organisation that has been promoting the arts and culture of our country for four decades now. The prestigious group is currently celebrating its 40th anniversary. To mark this occasion, Nattyoshova has a year-long list of events.

One such programme was held on 1 January, 2016 at National Press Club, Dhaka. Nattyoshova made a list of 40 outstanding media personalities (from print and electronic media) and 27 eminent cultural figures, for awarding them in recognition of their success, influence, and hard work.

The Conference Lounge of National Press Club was flooded with many revered people who the society looks up to as role models. To make the occasion even more wonderful, Iqbal Sobhan Chowdhury, Media Advisor to Prime Minister, graced the stage as Chief Guest. The list of special guests comprised of many important individuals of our country, from politicians to cultural figures.

Shahidul Haque Khan, Chairman, Nattyoshova, was the host of the event. Sheikh Mohd. Azhar Hossain, Chairman, Azhar Group of Enterprises, who is the Advisor to Nattyoshova, was the Chairman of the event.

For the category of eminent cultural personalities, Nattyoshova had planned to give out memorial awards. Therefore, each award receiver's name was associated with a legendary figure who had inspired his/her generation as well as the current one with their works and achievements.

The memorial awards were given in names of people like Shahidullah Kaiser, Chashi Nazrul Islam , Zahir Raihan and others. It was therefore indeed a matter of honour for the awardees to receive such awards, attaching their names with some of the most revered people of the country.

Lutfe Tahera was presented Begum Rokeya Sakhawat Hossain Memorial Award. Tahera had been the host of a widely popular television programme about health and family planning which aired on Bangladesh Television for twenty long years beginning 1981 until 2000.

"I am immensely delighted that my name has been associated with her," Tahera said. "Begum Rokeya was a person who fought for the education rights of women and worked towards their enlightenment. This award is a major source of inspiration for me."

Hopefully, the awardees will use such inspirations to gift the world with even better works and ideas than ever before.

By M H Haider