2016-02-16 00:00:00+06:00
The muslin way to fashion
Many things can be said about Muslin and yet it will be near impossible to measure its grandeur and magnificence with precision.

February 5, 2016 saw the inauguration of an authentic initiative taken to highlight and initiate the revival of the lost splendour of the fabric -- muslin; once the pride of Bengal. Such an event was held in joint collaboration by the National Museum, Drik and Aarong in an exclusive venue, the Ahsan Manzil.

The story of the venue effortlessly aligns with the story of muslin as they both share a past in a bygone royal era that was full of aristocracy and resplendence. Many dignitaries and eminent members of society attended the event to show their support towards the noble initiative.

The fashion show exhibited by Aarong was one of the highlights of the event. The parade revealed an impressive range of muslin saris with traditional Bengali motifs including 'jamdani'.

SUMMER SPECTACLE

The show began with models wearing pure white and beige saris with remarkable orange polka dots and intricate designs imprinted on them. These designs made a superb blend of the past and the present. Long dresses with jacket-tops followed suit. The entire collection promoted royalty, cool breeze of the summer and purity. Every single category in the 'summer line' was adorned with pearl earrings and neck pieces.

MONSOON MANIA

Moonsoon is a time in the Bengali calendar when raindrops wash away all the dirt, highlighting the prominent colour of nature -- green. Based on this idea, models in the 'monsoon line' wore spectacular olive green saris with wide borders and jamdani motifs. The majestic ladies walked down the stairs of Ahsan Manzil wearing green saris and kameezes with a modern touch.

AUTUMN DRIFT

The entire fashion line dedicated to autumn was accentuated with the colour blue. Models wore light blue saris with white traditional emblems and exactly the opposite with white base and blue motifs giving out a feel of tranquility and the sea.

LATE AUTUMN EXTRAVAGANZA

The season'late-autumn', authentic to Bengali culture, was highlighted with the colours yellow, orange and a combination of both. Long flowing Anarkali dresses were the crowning moment of the line.

COOL WINTER

The biting cold of the winter was bade goodbye with striking black and red combination saris. Black dresses with red motifs adorned the stage and took away everyone's breaths. Deep purple was also a colour that prevailed on the ramp.

THE SPRING FESTIVAL

The cheerful and jubilant season was typically pulled off with red and yellow combination saris, cream saris with striking magenta blouse and maroon saris with golden motifs.

Each and every line of the exclusive fashion parade was a perfect blend of the past and the present. The beautiful ladies walking down the stairs of Ahsan Manzil helped remind everyone of the glorious past of our country and the grandeur of the Maharajas.

The incompatible craftsmanship of our local artisans had also been promoted through the intricate details of the designing. The ultimate expectation from the spectacular show that was displayed is very honourable: to be able to revive the mystic fabric muslin and bring back the former glory of our textile world, someday.

By Mehrin Mubdi Chowdhury

Photo: Kazi Tahsin Agaz Apurbo