2016-05-03 00:00:00+06:00
Book launch: The girl who didn't share
Simeen Hussain, a mother of two, author of the book titled “The Girl Who Didn't Share” was inspired to pen down her views by her four year old daughter, Alia. She has written this book as an inspiration for children, basing it on the ideas of sharing and also helping mothers to teach their children the beauty and generosity that comes along with it. It is beautifully illustrated and easy to read.

The book launch was organised by the Red Shift, a café, who almost every other Saturday hold open book launches, since they are trying to encourage the reading and purchasing of books, for all age groups. Chief guests, Zakia Rouf Chowdhury, the Executive Director of Rangs and Professor Omar Rahman, Vice Chancellor of IUB, were present at the launch.

Having read the book, Zakia Rouf Chowdhury said, “Simeen has written a beautiful book about sharing since the first rule of life is sharing”. “The Girl Who Didn't Share” appeals to both parents and children for several reasons. One, I think it is a charming and delightful book. It teaches children about moral and ethical dilemma and about how to engage with friends and learn the value of sharing. And it also has a very simple message that you cannot have too much and less is always more.”

Simmen Hussain herself said “I wrote the book when my daughter was three and it's about the identification of my daughter's sharing problems. Motherhood can be quite challenging at times, but we all know the joy and magic that comes with motherhood. And I hope this book will help bring that magic when you read to your child, and I hope it delivers a message of goodness and kindness.”

The purpose of writing this book was to deliver a message of the beauty there is in sharing. It also encourages children to start reading at an early age. This book is mainly for children between ages of 2-5, full of colours and illustrations. The writer now plans to write more books in the future that gives simple yet moral messages to children.

By Mahee Azreen