2016-05-31 00:00:00+06:00
Fashion Runway Show 2016
Lux Look@Me Fashion Runway Show 2016 celebrated the monthy fashion and lifestyle magazine's fifth year of publication. The much-hyped event was hosted in high spirits on Tuesday, May 24 at Pan Pacific Sonargaon, Dhaka.

“The show's sole intention is to take the fashion industry of Bangladesh to new heights, promoting the authenticity of our country. The whole show is about highlighting Bangladeshi fabrics, designs, culture and, of course, keeping the festive season of Eid celebrations in mind,” said Syed Ashik Rahman, chief editor of Look@Me.

Notable designers Emdad Haque, Lipi Khandkar and Shahrukh Amin showcased some of their best cultural creations in the most creative of ways. However, the hefty job of hair and makeup was left in the capable hands of Farzana Shakil, Afroza Parveen and Tanjima Sharmin Muny - prominent personages of beauty. Also present were many household names in the world of fashion and entertainment like Srabonno Towhida and singer Salma Akhter.

Presented by RTV and We, the fashion show shed light on traditional attires with a distinctive Western fusion to create its masterpieces. Designer Shahrukh Amin highlighted blue and white to be the predominant colour combination in his designs. He kept it ethnic all the way from humble panjabis for men to Indo-Western attire for women, complete with sequinned capes and intricate head ornaments.

Designer Lipi Khandker, however, opted for a more elegant and cultural vibe, focusing on vibrant hues of pink and red. Her creations included tribal-printed saris, chic ponchos and artistic A-line kurtis and kameezs, perfectly accentuated with ethnic and bold jewellery and accessories.

Emdad Haque had a different story to tell though. His designs included traditional saris and kameezs in white, beige and golden hues, contrasting it with other clothes in vibrant purples and greens. "I like creating extraordinary pieces which stand out in the crowd," noteworthy hairstylist Tanjima Sharmin Muny expressed. Clothing materials were especially acquired from Tangail and handpicked 'tant' apparels were the centre of focus at the event. These were accented by bold embroidery in contrasting shades, laced tiers and simple yet elegant prints.

The fashion show ended by the magazine 'Look@Me' honouring the cover girls of the monthly issue in a special and final segment, Best Look 2016. Awards were given to some of the best models, as well as to stylist Afroza Parveen.

By Ramisa Haque

Photo: Farzana Shakil