2016-07-19 00:00:00+06:00
The Super Chef curtains falls for now
At the culmination of Rupchanda-The Daily Star Super Chef, the biggest reality TV programme in the country, followers of the show are already looking forward to what comes next. This season the show really took the challenges to the next level with a host of chefs from the world over visiting the Super Chef kitchen to drop in their two cents. This week, we take a look back at some of the most memorable moments of the show and highlight the turning points that have stood out with the TV audience.

The Most Innovative Dish: Runa Laila was one of the most innovative participants that this competition has seen till date. Almost every round, when left to her own devices, Runa Laila would create something that would often defy logic. However, no matter how bizarre an idea of hers would sound, the execution would leave everyone amazed. In one of the jadur baksho challenges, the judges presented the participants with a piece of gourd only. While others opted for more traditional dishes, Runa Laila prepared a Gourd Sandesh, one of the tastiest desserts of the competition. While this may have been her best, one would have to equally acknowledge Capsicum Halwa which she prepared during the Iftar team challenge!

The Toughest Challenge: The toughest challenge, according to popular opinion, would have to be the Perfume-Infused Duck, prepared by Chef Gerard Wallace of Bellagio Restaurant. The recipe called for the participants to cook a duck whilst ensuring it gave off the fragrance of a Theirry Mugler's organic perfumes. Immensely difficult to execute, the participants were only given one live demonstration, although guidance was at hand when required. This was also the first time a smoke machine was used on a cooking programme in the country, thus it was brand new for all. The challenge ended with the elimination of Runa Laila, one of the favourites.

The Most Memorable Moment: Interestingly, the show's most stand out moment wasn't anything one off but rather a collection of carefully cultivated moments which lead to creating a collage of wonderful memories. For the participants, their most memorable moments were the interaction they had with high calibre chefs from the world over while the judges remember the jadur baksho challenges the most because of the intensity they inspired. The audience, though, is torn between moments where their favourites won or lost.

The Crowd Favourite: Rafia Ahammad, the winner of Rupchanda-The Daily Star Chef, was crowned the crowd favourite also. Rafia wasn't only cheered on by the TV audience but even the sets of the show were rife with people applauding and praying for her success. When she was finally declared the winner, the applause was deafening and firmly sealed her place in the annals of culinary history.

The Most Heartbreaking Moment: Jeenia Jahangir's elimination saw the entire Super Chef kitchen break down in tears. Her “younger sister” persona won everyone over and their affections were never far from her. Fumbling through her last challenge, Jeenia broke down at the announcement of her elimination and the entire Super Chef team thronged around to console her, including the judges, creating a uniquely bittersweet Happy Family Moment.

The Judge hardest to please: For the third year running, Executive Chef of Watercress Restaurant, Tazammul Huq Tareq, was once again voted the judge that was hardest to please. Often sour and highly critical, Chef Tareq blunted none of his verbal blows but like a hardened war veteran, he never left the participant's side, constantly challenging them to excel and live up to the potential they had. No one left the kitchen with hard feelings but rather renewed respect for Chef Tareq and his faith in their talent.

This was indeed a rollercoaster ride in the Super Chef kitchen and next year promises to be no different but rather even more challenging than ever before! Keep your eye out for the next edition of Rupchanda-The Daily Star Super Chef!





By Osama Rahman



Photo: Kayes Kauser