2016-08-09 00:00:00+06:00
A night of pizzazz
By the time Shanto-Mariam University of Creative Technology (SMUCT) was established in 2003, the country had already taken giant strides in fashion. The boom created a sense of style among the urban youth and gave the industry a much needed boost. A faculty for the academic pursuit of fashion was, however, deeply felt at the time and SMUCT soon came on to fill that void.

For quite some time their ‘Annual Fashion Show’ has been a display of the sheer brilliance of SMUCT students - the very minds that are set to propel the fashion industry in the coming future.

The evening of 30 July oozed glamour as models walked the ramp; the attires - a tribute to Arab, Asian and contemporary fashion concepts - was able to create a sense of appreciation among those who were fortunate enough to attend the show as invited guests.

The evening started off with a queue that witnessed a mesmerising restructuring of traditional concepts in dress designing, followed by a sensuous presentation on evening wear, aptly termed - ‘Radiant Nightfall.’

‘Majestic Evolution’ followed - a display of ingenuity that toyed with colours, bringing out a magical essence and extravagant elements of fashion in refined forms. ‘Enchanted Paradise’ was a curious case of extrapolation where the proverbial tale of Adam and Eve and their fall from grace was aptly presented through attires.

A free spirited Bohemian lifestyle of a woman appeals in the wilderness. It creates the unusual attraction of craze, a simple look to the classical and the passionate attraction of eternal love. The queue - ‘Exotic Infusion’ - mixed dresses with refreshing exotic twists. The style was defined by breathtaking looks that incorporated natural elements and optical illusions.

And finally, to end the evening on a high note - ‘Desert Rose.’ The charm of the nomadic Arabs had a strong influence on fashion and that is now more pronounced than ever. The latest trend of infusing the abaya and other forms of Arab dressing as part of mainstream Bangladeshi fashion has been well presented. A fascinating display.

To restrict fashion within the geographical limitations of a country is akin to restricting ideas. In a world that is totally global, the only way we can make it to the top is through infusing concepts - a handshake of 'ours' with 'theirs' - where in reality the division ceases to exist.

LS Desk



Photo Courtesy: SMUCT