2016-11-08 00:00:00+06:00
Fahima Choudhury – Breaking Stereotypes
Age is one of the most taboo topics in the world. Why so? Fahima Choudhury shared her viewpoints in the roundtable discussion arranged by Dove at the Daily Star Centre on the 18th of October, 2016. “While doing research we have come to realise staggering facts like women despising public revelation of their true age. At least 1 out of 10 women preferred to hide their age and if that wasn't bad enough; 1 out of 3 women strictly believed, to be considered beautiful, they had to be young”. The advertising guru agreed that the situation was not a local concern but a world-wide phenomenon. At the roundtable, it was established that even today, when most women were relentlessly fighting to establish their rights, an absurd topic such as age could cause tremendous anxiety amongst the ladies. Fahima Choudhury added “I believe being in the advertising industry makes me more responsible towards breaking stereotypes such as this.I feel the constant need to create conscientious advertising and refrain from making anyone feel impracticable. I also realise that it is very important for us to keep the conversations alive so that people can come to us with their concerns and we can work on them together, as a team”. When inquired how she personally felt about the topic, Fahima Choudhury retorted “My mother has been an incredible role-model in my life; she is a wonderful person who has boosted a strong sense of self-confidence into me in my formative years. The men in my family have always been supportive and have never made me feel self-conscious. They have all supported me and perhaps because of all that bearing, the inferiority complex, the anxieties never affected me”. Carrying on the conversation, Fahima Choudhury had more to add. “This complex situation that we face even today needs to be addressed widely, not only amongst the girls but with the boys as well. They need to be taught how to treat women. We should refrain ourselves from telling our daughters how to dress; rather we should be teaching them how to be confident about the way they look”. Before ending the discussions, the talented professional conferred “Dove is on a social mission to create a world where beauty is a source of confidence. But it also needs to be understood that the brand cannot fight the extremities alone; there should be more mass engagement to truly affect the world in a positive way and remove any prevailing prejudice.”

By Mehrin Mubdi Chowdhury



Photo: Rashed Shumon