2017-03-28 00:00:00+06:00
Bishwo Rang and Rtv presents 'Otijhe Bangla Cinema'
This has never been done before. A fashion show showcasing the legacy of Bangla cinema through an entire collection of designs created by none another than Biplob Saha, designer of Bishwo Rang. The fashion show was held on 18 March, 2017 in the premises of Bengal Multimedia Studios. This programme which was live telecasted on RTV was hosted by Nabila and Ferdous as they made a studding entrance through a fashion show where models walked in colorful designs of Biplob Saha in the tunes of some great Bengali cinema songs.

As the great designer himself started the show with a little speech about how Bengali films has never failed to add colour to his life and how inspired he was when creating his latest designs for the upcoming Pahela Baishak. Films like Mukh o Mukhosh, Behula, Emil-er Goenda Bahini, Chhutir Din, Laili Majnu, Ora Aegaro Jon, Matir Moina, Jibon Theke Neya, Hothat Brishti represents the golden days of Bengali Cinema and these were some of the movies that bask in its own glory and had put Bangladesh on the map. Through the fashion shows, iconic characters were brought to life as Peya, Hera, Nawshaba, Shanu and Shabnam Faria performed in the famous numbers - Shey je keno elo na, Cholo na ghure ashi, Beder meye jochna, etc. The entire stage was awestruck as Sadia Islam Mou danced in an old Bengali number. Abida Sultana also performed one of her greatest Bengali film songs. It also included actors of the new generation clad in exclusive designs of Bishwo Rang.

The show was attended by many glitterati, especially Bengali film actors like Suborna Mustafa, Tisha, Bijori, Aupi Karim, Samina Nabi and many others. The highlight of the show was the Bengali film icon Faruk and Rozina who talked about their experiences and motivated the upcoming generation to bring back the glory of the golden times of Bengali films.

The brand new Baishakhi collection of Bishwo Rang was exhibited as the models walked clad in the bright colours of Bishwo Rang. Contemplating on the theme, this time around Biplob Saha managed to create an excellent collection with both traditional and contemporary designs. He has not only worked with the usual red and white, but also introduced bright shades of red, yellow, orange and pink. The main twist though, is his cinematic themed clothes which were very fashionable with trendy cuts and unique set of designs. His designs incorporated posters of many Bengali films and patterns of camera, lights and anything depicting the scenario of the film industry.

The show was all in all a unique initiative by RTV and Bishwo Rang with their media partner as Canvas, makeover partner as Persona, photography partner Shafawat Khan Shafu and Studio Lorenzo.

By Mormee Mahtab



Photo: Bishwo Rang by Biplob Saha