2017-04-04 00:00:00+06:00
Celebrating 44 years of Nipun Crafts Ltd
Nipun Crafts continues to be one of the pioneering fashion houses in our country. It was March 1973 --Bangladesh had only started to experience a new era of freedom and liberty-- when Ashrafur Rahman Faruq, Managing Director of Nipun Crafts Ltd. became among the first to introduce the concept of a fashion house.

It has been 44 years since then and to celebrate this spell Nipun Crafts Ltd. organised an exclusive fashion show and kurti exhibition on Wednesday, March 29, 2017 at Deshi Dosh, Bashundhara City Shopping Mall.

The proceedings of the evening began with a small speech from the managing director who reminisced the earlier days of Nipun Crafts.

“Khadi was the first fabric that Nipun worked on,” he said. “I was only a student at that time with limited savings but with a deep passion towards the fashion industry. However, with support from various khadi producers around the country, I opened the first retail store of Nipun in Malibagh, opposite to Ayesha Shopping Complex, which unfortunately no longer exists,” he added.

There has been a range of disappointments in the journey but throughout the entire time, he had his wife Hasmot Ara Flora, director and one of the founders of Nipun Crafts, right beside him.

The speech was followed by a few words by Nasiruddin Yousuf, freedom fighter, winner of Ekushey Padak and a renowned face in the media and entertainment industry.

Bengali dictionaries tell us that 'gamcha' can only be used to wipe our body. Nipun wanted to defy that notion by creating a kurti collection for women using 'gamcha'. The major colours that gamchas exist in are red, orange and white. However, this collection is not limited to these few colours.

One would be amazed to see a diverse collection of bright coloured kurtis in green, blue, yellow and even combinations of blue and white, green and black, maroon and white inspired by the Rakhain community in Patuakhali.

Nipun has always emphasised on portraying creativity using local fabrics and it is no different this time. The event was followed by a small fashion show that displayed the 12 lines of kurti with gamcha check and patchwork print as a wardrobe created especially for the 44-year anniversary. The Nipun design team has outdone itself, ensuring everything has been made utterly trendy with gamcha as their base material to also create coaties, jewellery boxes, bags, cushion covers, lamp shades, and place mats along with their signature creation kurtis.

Hit the nearest Nipun store and do not miss the chance to have one of these gorgeous kurtis in your own wardrobe.

By Mayesha Raidah