2017-04-11 00:00:00+06:00
FEAB presents Fashion Festival 2017: 'Deshiponno, Shobarjonno'
With Boishakh humming around the corner, Fashion Entrepreneurs Association of Bangladesh (FEAB) organised a five-day fashion assembly on the premises of the Chitrashala plaza in Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy. The Minister of Cultural Affairs, Asaduzzaman Noor; MP, graced the event as the Chief Guest.

The show began with an award giving ceremony followed by a wonderful fashion show choreographed by Azra Mahmood.

For the first time ever, FEAB arranged the 'lifetime achievement award' for outstanding individuals in the fashion industry. Brilliant personalities like Chandra Shekhar Shaha and Ashrafur Rahman Faruk received the award for their momentous contribution in the fashion industry of Bangladesh.

The fashion show showcased a variety of local fashion houses and their Pahela Baishakh collection.

Implementing the 'Gamcha' pattern in all of their designs, fashion house Nipun was first in queue, showcasing excellent pieces for Baishakh including sarees, salwar kameez and panjabis in shades of contrasting colours like red orange and white.

Tangail Saree Kutir, like always, exhibited traditional white and red themed sarees in sophisticated designs.

Kay Kraft made an amazing entry with models wearing the exclusive traditional sarees, kameez and panjabis; holding colourful placards emulating the celebration of Boishakh.

Fashion House Anjans surprised everyone with their creative Shap-ludu motif sarees, kameezes and panjabis implemented in bright colours contrasting with white.

Miah Bibi portrayed some exclusive saree collections representing the culture of Chittagong Hill Tracts.

Shailpik Craft mesmerised the audiences with their unique collection of elegant white sarees in colourful floral patterns.

Moreover Rang Bangladesh, Sadakalo, Kumudini, AB Fashion Maker, M-Craft, , Banglar Mela, Deshal, Kapor-e-Bangla, Sristy, Nandan Kutir, Arannya Craft, Nitto Upohar, Shiboni, Megh, etc along with other leading fashion houses also showcased their impressive collections for the upcoming Baishakh.

The award giving ceremony and fashion show by FEAB was surely motivating for everyone, providing a significant platform to the 'deshi' fashion houses representing the flourishing fashion industry of Bangladesh.

By Mormee Mahtab