2015-02-03 17:45:00+06:00
For your 'deshi' sweet-tooth
Kheer Puli

Kheer is a kind of concentrated flaky milk that is often used as a filling to make a variety of pitha. Kheer puli pitha is very delicious and easy to make.

Ingredients:

2 cup rice flour

2 liter milk

½ cup mawa

2 cup jaggery

2 tbsp sugar

1 pinch salt

Oil to deep fry

Method:

In a pan, boil milk and sugar until reduced to 1 cup. Now add mawa to it. Mix properly till it looks like halwa. Remove the pan and keep it aside. In a separate pan, boil water. Put jaggery, salt and rice flour, mix thoroughly and make a soft dough. Knead well for few minutes. Take part of the dough and roll it, cut out circles with a cookie cutter. Place a small amount of milk 'kheer' on each circle. Seal tightly to form a crescent shape. Now heat oil in a pan. Fry the pitha until brown and serve.

Gurer shondesh

Shondesh is a popular Bengali sweet which is made with chhana (cottage cheese), sugar or jaggery. There are many different varieties of shondesh like plain shondesh, gurer shondesh, norom paker shondesh, kora paker shondesh, etc.

Ingredients:

4 cup full fat milk

1 cup jaggery

¼ tsp citric acid

¼ cup water

Chopped pistachios for garnishing

Method:

Boil the milk. Mix citric acid in water and add to the milk till the milk forms curds. Strain the cheese through a clean cloth and cool. Squeeze out the excess water. Now take a plate and mash the 'chhana' with your palm until smooth. Add the soft jaggery and knead for 10 minutes. Now take a non stick pan and heat it on low medium heat. When it is hot add the 'channa' mixture and stir with a spatula for 4 to 5 minutes. Now take out the warm 'chhana' and immediately shape with moulds or just toss into balls. If you wait, it will harden and you cannot shape it. Garnish with pistachios, drizzle some melted date jaggery and serve.

Gokul pitha

Gokul pitha is a sweet fried dumpling soaked in thick hot sugar syrup. The filling is mostly made with desiccated coconut and jaggery. Sometimes coconut and mawa is mixed with sugar.

Ingredients:

2 cup grated coconut

½ cup date jaggery

½ cup milk powder

1 cup flour

1 cup milk

1 tsp ghee

½ tsp soda bi-carbonate

Oil or ghee to deep fry

For syrup -

2½ cup sugar

2 cup water

Method:

In a pan, mix coconut and jaggery and put on a low flame. Stir well for 5-6 minutes and remove the pan, add milk powder, mix it properly and the stuffing is ready. Now take water in a heavy-bottomed pan and add sugar. Boil for 8 minutes on a high flame to get a thick syrup.

Now in a bowl mix flour, soda bi-carbonate and ghee. Then add milk and make a smooth batter, keep it aside with the lid on for 15 minutes. Make small balls from the coconut mixture and put it on your plum. Then flatten it by pressing with the other palm to make it look like patty. Now heat oil or ghee in a pan. Dip the coconut patty one at a time in the batter and deep fry it. While these are still hot, immerse into sugar syrup and keep for 10 minutes.

Badam halwa

Badam halwa is a dessert fit for kings. This recipe does not call for too many ingredients, nor is the process a complex one, it takes love and time to make a good badam halwa.

Ingredients:

3 cups whole almonds

1½ cup milk

¼ cup ghee

2 cups sugar

¼ tsp cardamom powder

Method:

Soak the almonds in hot water for an hour. Then remove the skin. Blend the peeled almonds and milk in a blender. Make a coarse paste. Set up a deep, heavy-bottomed pan on medium heat. When it is hot, add ghee to it. When the ghee melts, add the almond mixture to it. Stir well.

Cook the mixture on medium heat, stirring constantly. At one stage, as the liquid in the mixture begins to dry up, add sugar and stir. Keep cooking the mixture until most of the moisture in it dries up. It will start to come away from the sides of the pan.

Halwa is ready when it no longer sticks to the pan at all. Take the halwa off the heat and spoon it onto a flat platter to cool. Garnish with a pinch of thin almond slivers and serve.

Sago kheer

Kheer is a South Asian rice pudding made from rice, chipped wheat, vermicelli, etc. with milk, sugar or jaggery. It is flavoured with cardamom, saffron, cashew nuts, pistachios or almonds. It is typically served during a meal or as a dessert.

Ingredients:

1 cup sago

2 liter milk

1 cup sugar

2 tbsp cashew nuts

1 tbsp raisins

Method:

Wash and drain the sago and add to milk. Boil milk till it thickens. Add sugar and cook on medium heat, stirring continuously, until thick. Now add the cashew nuts and raisins. Remove the pan. Allow it to cool down. Serve the cool sago kheer.

Wheat flour laddu

Ingredients:

1 cup wheat flour

¼ cup ghee

½ cup sugar powder

10 pieces cashew nuts

Pinch of cardamom powder

Method:

In a pan add a little ghee and fry the cashew nuts till they turn golden brown. Keep it aside. In the same pan add flour and roast it nicely till it gives a nice aroma. Roast on a slow flame. Transfer the roasted flour in a wide plate. Add the sugar and cardamom powder and remaining ghee to the roasted flour. While hot, stir well till it mixes thoroughly. Make round ball with your hand. Now wheat flour laddu is ready.