2015-04-21 00:00:00+06:00
ORIENTAL DUCK SALAD
1 duck leg

1 tsp Chinese five-spice powder

140g rice noodles

1 celery stick, cut into matchsticks

1 carrot, cut into matchsticks

½ cucumber, deseeded and cut into matchsticks

2 spring onions, sliced lengthways

2 tbsp hoisin sauce

1 tbsp soy sauce

Method:

Heat oven to 220C/200C fan/gas 7. Rub the duck leg all over with five-spice and seasoning, place on a baking tray and roast for 25 minutes.

Meanwhile, cook the rice noodles following pack instructions. Drain and cool under cold running water, then drain again and toss with the celery, carrot, cucumber and spring onions. When cool enough to handle, remove the duck meat and crispy skin from the bone and finely shred.

To make the dressing, mix the hoisin and soy sauce with 2 tbsp water. Divide the noodles between two plates and top with the shredded duck. Drizzle over the dressing and serve.



Ingredients:

2 tsp sea salt

2 tsp freshly ground black pepper

1 tsp five spice powder

1 tsp sugar

6 jumbo prawns, head and legs removed, optional

2 cups corn flour or potato starch

Vegetable oil, for frying (about 4 cups)

1 tbsp finely diced garlic

1 tbsp finely diced red onion

2 chillies, sliced

4 spring onions, sliced into 1½ inch pieces

1 lime, quartered

Method:

Dry roast the salt, pepper, and five spice powder in a pan. Remove from the heat, allow to cool, the combine with the sugar and mix well. Set aside.

In a deep fry pan or wok, bring the oil to 350 degrees F.

Dust the prawns in the flour and fry 2 prawns at a time in order to keep the oil at a constant high heat.

Cook the prawns for about 1 minute. Remove the prawns and place on a rack set over a baking sheet or on kitchen paper towels to absorb the excess oil. Repeat with the remaining prawns and set aside.

Carefully remove the fry pan or wok from the heat.

Place a separate fry pan over medium heat, and add a dash of oil. Next add the garlic, red shallots, chilli, and spring onion, and cook until fragrant. Now add the fried prawns, tossing as you sprinkle the salt, pepper, and five spice mixtures, making sure you coat the prawns well.