2015-10-20 00:00:00+06:00
Vietnamese Caramelised Fish
He has been trained by some of the biggest names in the culinary world including Gary Mehigan, George Calombaris, Matt Moran, all judges of Masterchef Australia. He has even served the Australian cricket team as regular customers. Today, Tareq stands as the Executive Chef of Watercress Restaurant and is one of the lead judges of Rupchanda-The Daily Star Super Chef, specialising in Italian cuisine and fusion cooking. He leads a team of 33 in the kitchen, with the inclusion of 2 sous chefs. Tareq's exceptionality is not only evident in his flavours, but also in his precision, plating and most importantly, high hygiene standards. For this year's Puja, Chef Tareq has an extraordinary dish for you to try out and brighten up your festivities.

Ingredients:

Sauce:

1 tsp chopped onion

½ tsp chopped garlic

¼ tsp chopped ginger

1 tbsp chilli sauce

1 tsp oyster sauce

½ tsp soy sauce

½ tsp sesame oil

1 pinch sugar

Salt & pepper to taste

Fish:

200g boneless fish filet

1 tsp chopped garlic

½ tsp chopped ginger

1 tbsp lemon juice

1 tbsp olive oil

½ tsp yellow mustard

½ tsp chopped red chilli

Salt & pepper to taste

Method:

For the sauce, heat the frying pan and add the oil. Then add the ginger, onion and garlic and cook until it becomes nice and golden. Add the chilli sauce, oyster sauce and soy sauce. Bring to a boil, and add a little water if needed. Finally, season it with salt, pepper and sugar, and add half of the sesame oil.

To prepare the fish, cut it into roughly 30g pieces and marinate it with all the aforementioned ingredients, and then keep in the fridge for about 15-20 minutes.

Once the fish has been marinated, place the pieces in a heated frying pan with ½ teaspoon of oil, and cook on each side for 3-4 minutes. Place the fish on a plate, then top it with the sauce and drizzle with the rest of the sesame oil. Serve fresh with some plain steamed rice.

Recipe courtesy: Syed Tazammul Huq Tareq, Executive Chef, Watercress Restaurant

Photo courtesy: Watercress Restaurant