2016-01-26 00:00:00+06:00
Across boundaries
Malwani fish Curry

Ingredients:

1 kg sole fish fillet

250g onion, chopped

250g fresh coconut

200ml oil

Salt to taste

30g garlic

20g ginger

4 pieces cloves

2 pieces cinnamon

2 pieces bay leaf

Method:

For masala –

Sauté onion garlic and coconut in less oil, to become golden brown and make a paste.

Masala for sole fish marinate -

Saute garlic, ginger, clove, cinnamon, pepper corn and bay leaf, in less oil and make a paste. Add marinade to sole fish.

In a bowl add fish and paste of garam masala and marinate. In a handi add oil, add chopped onion and sauté till golden brown. Add marinated sole fish and Malvani masala and cook. Add fish stock and cover it and cook on slow flame. Add onion and coconut paste and cook till it is thick in consistency.

SEA BASS PROVENÇALE WITH CREAMED GREEN PEAS AND CARROTS ORANGE GINGER PUREE

Ingredients:

60ml extra virgin olive oil

300g yellow onions, thinly sliced

100g fresh parsley, chopped

30g fresh thyme

3 cloves garlic, chopped

600g fresh tomatoes, chopped

200g dry white wine

4 pieces sea bass fillets (200 grams each)

Salt as required

Pepper as required

Carrots with orange and ginger purée -

1 kg carrots (about 16 small carrots), peeled and cut into ½" slices

500g chicken or vegetable broth

1 tbsp sugar

½ tsp salt

1 tbsp ginger, finely grated and peeled fresh

2 cloves garlic, minced or grated

200g fresh orange juice

Freshly ground pepper, to taste

Method:

Heat the olive oil in a large pan over medium-high heat. Add onions, half of parsley, thyme, garlic and red pepper. Sauté until onions begin to soften in about 5 minutes. Stir in tomatoes and wine. Sprinkle fish with salt and pepper. Place fish in the same place. Bring to a simmer. Cover; bake until the fish is ready (in about 10 minutes.) Plate the fish. Stir remaining parsley into sauce. Boil sauce until reduced slightly (give it about 2 minutes). Season to taste with salt and pepper, spoon over sauce.

Carrots with orange and ginger purée -

Combine the carrots, broth, sugar, and salt in a saucepan over medium heat; bring to a simmer, cover, and cook until the carrots are very tender, 20 minutes. Drain the carrots, reserving the ¼ cup of cooking liquid.

Heat oil in a saucepan over medium-low heat. Add the ginger and garlic and cook, stirring frequently, until softened and fragrant, about 2–3 minutes. Remove from heat and place in a food processor along with carrots and orange juice; purée until smooth, scraping down the sides of the bowl as necessary. Add 1–2 tbsp reserved cooking liquid to make a smooth purée. Season with salt and pepper; serve warm.

TUNA STEAK MARINATED, CAULIFLOWER PUREE AND BALSAMIC CARAMELISED ONION

Ingredients:

800g tuna in two or three thick slices, 3cm

For the marinade -

1 pieces lemon (zest)

8 pieces mint leaf

Chopped fresh herbs (parsley, basil, chives, oregano)

4 tbsp extra virgin olive oil

10 pieces capers

Salt and pepper, as required

Cauliflower purée

Balsamic vinegar caramelised onions

Caramelised onions in balsamic vinegar

500g red onion

150g sugar

200g balsamic vinegar

20g honey

700g cauliflower

200g potato

500ml milk

100g Parmesan cheese

Nutmeg grated

Salt

Pepper

Method:

In a bowl mix the marinade ingredients, then the oil, lemon peel, herbs including chopped mint, chopped capers, salt and pepper. Dip the tuna steak in the marinade and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes or preferably a couple of hours.

Prepare the pan and cook the tuna steak over high heat for a few minutes (about 2 per side) turning once with a wooden spatula.

Remove from heat and cut into thin slices about 1 cm in diameter with the blade slightly oblique.

Serve in a dish on a bed of cauliflower, lay on each slice of tuna a teaspoon of caramelised onions and sprinkle the remaining marinade oil.

Caramelised onions in balsamic vinegar –

To prepare the onions in balsamic vinegar, start by cleaning the onions. Wash, peel and slice the onions. Take a saucepan, add the onions and balsamic vinegar, then leave to dry for 10 minutes over low heat, stirring frequently. When the onions have softened, add the honey and sugar and cook for about 45 minutes over very low heat, stirring often.

Cauliflower purée -

Divide the cauliflower into florets and cut them in half. Peel the potatoes and cut them into pieces of medium size.

Put everything in a saucepan, pour half a litre of water, add a little salt, put on the fire and bring to a boil. Cover, lower the heat and simmer for about twenty minutes.

Withdraw, drain everything and mix, add milk to such an extent that the consistency of the mixture remains quite creamy.

Put back on the stove over medium heat so that the purée does not reach the boil.

Set aside for five minutes, add the parmesan cheese, salt and pepper and add a pinch of nutmeg.