2016-02-09 00:00:00+06:00
Kebab fiesta!
ASHRAFI MAHI TIKKA

Ingredients:

800g (40g x 5 pieces) sole fish, cubed

50g cream

200g yoghurt

5g green chilli

15g ginger

25g coriander paste

3g kasoori methi/fenugreek seeds

1g salt

2g butter

100g raw mango

3g black pepper

8g amchoor powder/raw mango powder

25ml refined oil

3g jeera powder

3g garam masala

5g garlic

25g mint chutney

Banana leaf

Method:

Wash the fish and squeeze out excess moisture. Marinate fish with ginger, garlic paste and salt. Take yoghurt in a mixing bowl, add raw mango paste and all powdered spices and mix it well. Put the first batch of fish in the marinade. Keep the fish for 6 hours with the marinade. Take skewers and put the fish in the skewers and cook in the tandoor till tender. At the end season it with chaat masala and lemon juice. Serve hot with freshly made mint chutney.

KAKORI KEBAB

Oven temp: 425F-220 C

Ingredients:

2 cups minced mutton/lamb

1 tsp ginger-garlic paste

2 tsp salt

¼ tsp powdered black pepper

2 tbsp chopped green coriander

Chopped green chillies to taste

2 tbsp chopped, raw papaya

4 cloves

1 black cardamom seeds

1/8 tsp powdered cinnamon

1 tsp cumin seeds

1 blade mace

¼ tsp grated nutmeg

2 cups onions - sliced thin and browned crisp in ½ cup ghee

¼ cup bhuna chana, powdered

1 egg

Ghee for brushing some chaat masala

Onion rings and lemon wedges for garnish

Method:

Mix all ingredients except ghee and garnishes to marinate for about 4 hours, then grind to form a smooth, thick paste.

Knead this mixture well and mix in the roasted gram and the egg. Cover and refrigerate for another hour. About 25 minutes before serving, shape the meat around the skewers and place the kebabs on to a grill over a drip tray, or in a pre-heated oven (also on a drip tray). If cooking them over a charcoal grill, you will have to keep rotating them so that they brown and cook evenly. They should take 15-20 minutes to cook. Brush with ghee and cook another 2 minutes. Serve garnished with chaat masala onions and the lemon and serve with green chutney.

PANEER CHEESE KURKURE

Ingredients:

To be mixed into a mixture -

1 cup grated paneer

¼ cup boiled, peeled and mashed potatoes

1 tsp ginger-green chilli paste

Pinch of turmeric powder (halud)

1 tsp coriander-cumin seeds powder

1 tsp chilli powder

½ tsp fennel seeds

1 tsp dried mango powder (amchur)

½ tsp garam masala

To be mixed into a smooth paste -

½ cup plain flour (maida)

¼ cup water

Salt to taste

Other ingredients -

¼ cup cornflakes or vermicelli, crushed coarsely

Oil for deep-frying

For serving -

Garlic-tomato chutney

Method

Divide the mixture into 10 to12 equal portions and shape each portion into a round ball or cylinder. Dip each ball in the paste and roll in the cornflakes to coat them evenly. Heat the oil in a kadhai and deep-fry the balls in batches till they turn golden brown in colour from all the sides. Drain on absorbent paper and serve hot with garlic tomato chutney.

Handy tips -

Boil, peel and mash 3 small sized potatoes to get ¼ cup mashed potatoes. Mash them when they are still warm to get uniformly mashed potatoes.

SURKH MURGH TIKKA

Ingredients:

For first marinade -

20ml malt vinegar

1 tsp ginger paste

1 tbsp garlic paste

Salt to taste

1 kg chicken tikka, boneless (12-13 pcs)

For second marinade -

½ cup hung yoghurt (100g)

50g processed cheese

50g gram flour (besan), roasted

1 tsp yellow chilli powder

1 tsp black pepper powder

1 tsp garam masala powder

20 ml oil

½ cup cream (100ml)

1 pinch kasoori methi powder

1 tsp cumin powder, roasted

Method:

First marinate with malt vinegar, ginger paste, garlic paste, salt. Marinate chicken for 20 minutes. For the second marnate, mix together hung yoghurt, cheese, roasted besan, yellow chilli powder, black pepper powder, garam masala, kasoori methi powder and roasted cumin powder in a bowl.

Add chicken pieces. Then add some oil and mix. After that, mix in some cream with the marinated chicken. Keep for 1 hour. Put chicken pieces on skewers and grill.

Recipes by Chef Kamal Waris and Chef Sheikh Furkan from Khazana

Photo: Sazzad Ibne Sayed