2016-05-31 00:00:00+06:00
Delectably different
MOUSSAKA

Ingredients

2 large eggplants, thinly sliced

1 tbsp olive oil

1 medium onion, finely chopped

2 garlic cloves, crushed

800g beef mince

420g can crushed tomatoes

1 tsp ground cinnamon

½ tsp ground allspice

1/3 cup grated cheese

Lemon wedges, to serve

White sauce

75g butter

1/3 cup plain flour

2 cups milk

Method

Spray eggplant with oil. Heat a large frying pan over medium-high heat. Cook eggplant in batches for 2-3 minutes on each side or until browned. Transfer to a large plate.

Heat oil in a large saucepan over medium-high heat, and add onion and garlic. Cook for about 5 minutes or until the onion has softened, then add mince. Cook, stirring with a wooden spoon to break up the mince, for 6-8 minutes or until browned. Add tomatoes, cinnamon and allspice. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat to medium-low. Simmer for 30 minutes or until sauce is thick and the excess liquid has evaporated.

Meanwhile, make the white sauce. Melt butter in a saucepan over medium-high heat. Add flour, and cook, stirring for 1 minute or until it bubbles. Gradually stir in milk. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat to medium. Cook, stirring for 5 minutes or until mixture has thickened, and then remove from the heat.

Preheat the oven to 180°C. Grease an 8 cup-capacity ovenproof dish. Place one-third of the eggplant, slightly overlapping, over the base of the prepared dish. Spread half the meat sauce over eggplant. Repeat layers, ending with eggplant. Spread white sauce over eggplant and sprinkle with cheese. Bake for 45 minutes or until golden. Let it stand for 15 minutes. Serve with lemon wedges.

SPAGHETTI BOLOGNESE

Ingredients

2 tbsp olive oil

400g beef mince

1 onion, diced

2 garlic cloves, chopped

100g carrot, grated

400g tin chopped tomatoes

400ml stock (made from stock cube. Ideally beef, but any will do)

400g dried spaghetti

Salt and pepper

Method

Heat a large saucepan over a medium heat. Add a tablespoon of olive oil and once hot, add the beef mince and a pinch of salt and pepper. Cook the mince until well browned over a medium-high heat (be careful not to burn the mince. It just needs to be a dark-brown colour). Once browned, transfer the mince to a bowl and set aside.

Add another tablespoon of oil to the saucepan you browned the mince in and turn the heat to medium. Add the onions and a pinch of salt and fry gently for 5-6 minutes, or until softened and translucent. Add the garlic and cook for another 2 minutes. Add the grated carrot then pour the mince and any juices in the bowl back into the saucepan.

Add the tomatoes to the pan and stir well to mix. Pour in the stock, bring to a simmer and then reduce the temperature to simmer gently for 45 minutes, or until the sauce is thick and rich. Taste and adjust the seasoning as necessary.

When ready to cook the spaghetti, heat a large saucepan of water and add a pinch of salt. Cook according to the packet instructions. Once the spaghetti is cooked through, drain and add to the pan with the bolognese sauce. Mix well and serve.

MANGO MOUSSE

Ingredients

2 mangoes

75g icing sugar, sifted

Juice of 1 lime (or small lemon)

2 tsp gelatine

300ml double cream, whipped

Method

Cut the mangoes in half lengthwise, discard the stones and scrape the flesh into a blender or food processer. Add the icing sugar and lime or lemon juice and blend until smooth.

Alternatively, press the mango flesh through a nylon sieve then mix with the icing sugar and lime or lemon juice.

Pour 2 tbsp water into a small heatproof bowl. Sprinkle over the gelatine and leave until spongy. Set the bowl over a pan of gently simmering water until the gelatine has dissolved. Cool slightly, and then mix into the mango puree with the cream. Pour into individual glass bowls and leave to set.

By Elora Hossain

Photo: Collected