2016-06-07 00:00:00+06:00
WESTIN’S IFTAR TWIST
TANDOORI QUAIL

Ingredients

12 whole quails (necks and wing tips removed)

¼ cup fresh lemon juice, plus lemon wedges (for serving)

1 tbsp plus 1 tsp hot paprika

1 cup whole-milk yoghurt

¼ cup coarsely chopped ginger

4 garlic cloves, coarsely chopped

1 tbsp unsweetened toasted wheat germ

1 tsp garam masala

2 tbsp vegetable oil, plus more for grilling

1 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil

FRESHLY GROUND PEPPER

1 head of romaine lettuce, cut into bite-size pieces

½ small red onion, thinly sliced

Salt

Method

Using a sharp knife, make a ¼ inch-deep slash in each breast-half and thigh of each quail. Transfer the quail to a large rimmed baking sheet and drizzle with 2 tablespoons of the lemon juice; rub to coat thoroughly. Season the quail with salt and sprinkle with 2 teaspoons of the paprika over the quail; rub the seasonings into the slashes. Cover and refrigerate for 1 hour.

In a mini food processor, combine the yoghurt, ginger, garlic, wheat germ, garam masala, the 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil, 1 tablespoon of lemon juice and remaining 2 teaspoons of paprika and process until smooth. Coat the quail with the marinade, cover and refrigerate for 3 hours.

Preheat the oven to 400°. Heat a large grill pan and coat it with vegetable oil. Grill 4 quails at a time over moderately high heat until nicely charred all over, 5 minutes total. Transfer the quail to a large rimmed baking sheet. Repeat with the remaining quail.

Transfer the quail to the oven and roast for about 12 minutes, until an instant-read thermometer inserted in the breasts reads 130° for medium-rare.

In a large bowl, combine the remaining 1 tablespoon of lemon juice with the olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Add the romaine and red onion and toss. Mound the salad on plates and top with the quail. Serve, passing lemon wedges at the table.

HARIYALI CHICKEN KEBAB

Ingredients

400g boneless chicken breast

3 tbsp thick curd

2 tsp lemon juice

1 cup coriander leaves

1 cup mint leaves

½ cup methi leaves, chopped

½ cup spinach leaves, chopped

1½ inch ginger piece

6-8 cloves garlic

4-5 green chillies thinly chopped

½ tsp red chilli powder

2 tsp coriander powder

1½ tsp garam masala powder

1 tsp butter

2 tbsp cooking oil

Salt to taste

Bamboo Skewer stick to grill

Method

Wash the chicken breast and cut into medium size chunks. Apply salt, butter, lemon juice and red chilli powder on the chicken pieces and keep aside for 10-15 minutes. In the meantime, chop the methi leaves thinly, boil in little amount of water and drain aside. Combine the boiled methi, spinach, coriander-mint leaves, ginger, garlic and green chillies. Grind into a smooth paste.

Now add curd and spices in ground paste of leaves and coat the chicken pieces very well in it. Cover the marinated chicken and keep it aside at least for 20 minutes, so that chicken gets the aroma and flavours of green paste and spices. Soak the wooden skewers in normal water for about 4-5 minutes. Apply some oil on the skewers and arrange the pieces of chicken onto the skewers. Spread some more oil on top of the chicken pieces.

Preheat the oven at 350F for 5 minutes and place the skewers in the oven. Leave to grill for about 15-18 minutes. Keep checking and turn the skewer sticks to cook evenly from all the sides. Grill till the kebab is well done. Remove the kebab from the skewers and arrange on the serving plate. Serve hot with lemon wedges, cabbage kachumber and spicy green chutney.