2016-06-14 00:00:00+06:00
Edibles from the East
CHICKEN KABSA

Ingredients:

1kg chicken, cut into pieces

500 gram white Basmati Rice

200 gram tomato paste

1 medium onion, chopped

2 tsp garlic ginger paste or powder

1 tsp ground cumin

½ tea spoon chilli powder

2 tsp ground cardamom

2 tsp chilli flakes (optional)

6 tsp of olive oil

1 large tomato, chopped

1/4 cup raisins

1 cinnamon stick

2 pcs dry whole lemon

1 preserved lemon (optional)

Salt and pepper to taste

Method:

In a large pot, add oil and the chopped onions on high heat. Stir until browned. Add boiling water to the pot until half full, add salt, pepper, cardamom, garlic and ginger paste, chilli, tomato, tomato paste, lemon and raisins. Add chicken to broth, cover and simmer on medium heat for 20-25 minutes.

Now, remove chicken from broth, place on a baking dish and put into a preheated oven at 180c for 20-25 minutes until the skin is lightly crisped. Strain the broth, keep the strained ingredients in one bowl and the broth in another bowl.

In the pot, add the rice along with 4 cups of the Kabsa broth. Bring to boil then reduce the heat to low, cover the pot, and cook the rice for 15-20minutes until light and fluffy. Put rice on a platter, place the chicken on top, and garnish with the strained ingredients and serve.

KIBBEE

Ingredients

350 gram beef or lamb meat minced (qima):

1 cup cracked wheat (bulgur)

1 medium sized onion, chopped

1 green chilli, chopped

1 tsp salt

A few stems coriander, chopped

1 tsp ginger, chopped

½ tsp black pepper

1 tsp mixed spices

¼ cup chilled water or crushed ice

For the filling:

250 gram beef or lamb meat minced (qima)

1 onion, diced

1 green chilli, chopped

½ tsp ginger and garlic paste

¼ cup pine nuts, toasted

½ tsp, mixed spices

salt and pepper to taste

1 tablespoon, vegetable oil

oil for frying

Method:

Wash the bulgur very well and strain.

Take the bulgur and place it on a tray to dry for about 1 hour.

Take the onion, chilly, and ginger, mix it with the bulgur and add the meat. Mix them together until well combined.

Add the seasonings-- salt, pepper, and allspice. Mix once again very well.

You can use a food processor to mix these ingredients for a smoother finish. Refrigerate the mixture.

Preparation for the filling

Heat up the oil, and stir the dices onion in the oil, until it turns golden. Add ginger and garlic paste.

Add minced meat to the onions and cook until it is done.

Add salt and chopped green chilly, pepper and allspice.

Strain any excess fat from the filling mixture.

Add the toasted pine nuts.

Making Kibee Balls:

Take out the dough mixture from the fridge. Soak your hands in cold water, break a small piece of dough.

Push with your index finger into the centre of the dough ball, making an indentation or place for the filling. The hole should be large enough to spread the filling to the entire ball.

Once this is done, take a small amount of the filling and place it into the ball.

Close the ball with your index finger and thumb. Repeat this step with every ball.

Once all of them are made, heat up the oil and fry each Kibbee Ball.

Once they are light brown in colour, take them out of the oil and place on a paper towel to soak up the excess oil. Serve with green salad and tahini sauce.

MIDDLE EASTERN LAMB STEW

Ingredients:

1 kg lamb meat, shoulder cut

4 tablespoon olive oil

5 green chillis

4 tsp ground cumin

1 tsp mixed spice (pach phoron)

A few cardamoms, cinnamon sticks, bay leaves.

2 tbs ginger garlic paste

1 tbs ground coriander powder

½ tsp red chilli powder

Salt to taste

Freshly ground black pepper

2 medium onions, chopped

2 medium tomatoes, diced

6 cups chicken broth

4 cloves of garlic, sliced/crushed

½ can of chickpeas, rinsed

1 bunch of baby spinach

Preparation:

Place lamb in a large slow cooker. Mix oil, cumin, coriander, allspice, whole spices, ginger garlic paste, red chilli powder, salt, green chilli, and black pepper in a small bowl. Toss the meat to coat it in the spices. Place the onion on top of the meat.

Bring tomatoes, chicken broth and garlic to a simmer in a medium saucepan over medium to high heat. Pour over the lamb and onion. Cover and cook until the lamb is very tender. It may take about half an hour on high heat.

Skim or blot any visible fat from the surface of the stew. Mash 1/2 of the chickpeas with a fork in a small bowl. Stir the mashed and whole chickpeas into the stew, along with spinach. Cover and cook on high until the spinach wilts, about 5 minutes. Serve.

QAMAR EL DEEN DRINK

1 packet Qamar el deen (apricot fruit leather)

1 litre water

3 tbs honey

Sugar to taste

1 tbs rosewater (optional)

Method:

Cut the fruit leather into small pieces, place it in a bowl, add water to soak, and leave to soak overnight or for 4-5 hours during the day, stirring every hour or so. To ensure that all pieces have dissolved, place the water and Qamar el Deen mix in a food processor. Taste and adjust sugar and honey to taste. Add rose-water. Keep in refrigerator, and serve chilled.

VEGETABLE STEW (4-5 Servings)

Ingredients:

1 red bell pepper, seeded and diced

1 green bell pepper, seeded and diced

2 zucchinis, diced

2 carrots, sliced

1 tbs garlic, chopped

4 tbs olive oil

2 stalks of celery, sliced

2 potatoes, diced

2 tomatoes, diced

1 cup cauliflower, chopped

1 tsp chilli powder

½ tsp turmeric powder

2 tbs fresh mint, chopped

1 tbs ground cumin

1 can of chickpeas, drained and rinsed

Salt and pepper to taste

1 cube of vegetable stock

Method:

Heat the vegetable stock in a large dish until boiling, then add the pepper, zucchini, carrot, celery, vegetable stock cube, olive oil, and chopped garlic.

Stir over high heat for 2-3 minutes, until the vegetables begin to soften.

Add the potatoes, tomatoes, cauliflower, chilli, turmeric powder, mint and cumin. Add the chickpeas and bring to a boil.

Reduce the heat, cover the dish with a tight-fitting lid and simmer for 15 minutes, or until all the vegetables are tender.

Season to taste with salt and pepper and serve hot, garnished with mint leaves.

Recipes by Chef Md Billal Hossain

First & Business Class Lounge

Customer experience Qatar Airways

Photo: Collected