None
B’desh sppured to adopt smart manufacturing
Industries minister Amir Hossain Amu, Swedish ambassador Johan Frisell and Bangladesh Investment Development Authority executive chairman Kazi M Aminul Islam are seen along with others at a seminar on ‘Making Bangladesh a Next Generation Manufacturing Hub - Smart Manufacturing by Sweden’ organised by the Embassy of Sweden in Dhaka in collaboration with Business Sweden, the Swedish Trade and Investment Council in Dhaka on Wednesday. — New Age photo

Experts and businesses from home and abroad on Wednesday said that Bangladesh could achieve the target of being a manufacturing destination in the region through adopting smart manufacturing, a new concept of efficient, sustainable and profitable industrial process driven by knowledge and technology.

Dependence on traditional labour intensive industry alone will not be able to fulfil the aspiration of becoming a developed country by 2041, they said at a seminar on making Bangladesh a next generation manufacturing hub.

Swedish embassy in Dhaka and the Swedish Trade and Investment Council ‘Business Sweden’ jointly organised the seminar at Hotel Amari in the capital.

Addressing the seminar, Bangladesh Investment Development Authority executive chairman Kazi M Aminul Islam said smart manufacturing was emerging as the future of production.

‘I clearly see smart manufacturing as a way to become high income country by 2041. We will lag behind if we don’t adopt it,’ he said.

He requested the industries ministry for creating a fund for promoting smart manufacturing.

Bangladesh’s economy is shifting towards knowledge and technology based economy from labour-based one, he said, adding that smart manufacturing is needed for quantum shift.

Smart manufacturing system makes the business efficient, profitable and sustainable through smart lifecycle management of product,supply chain, asset and other issues related to production, said Charlotta Johnsson, an associate professor at Automatic Control at Lund University of Sweden.

She said that the system also involved better integration among companies and within company for reducing time and increasing automation in production process.

Smart manufacturing enhances productivity, creates new business models, new products and services and new markets, she added.

Cayo Betancourt, representative of Swedish company Ericsson, demonstrated how Bangladesh’s footwear, fishing and handicraft sectors could benefit through adopting smart manufacturing system which is a coordination of human, sensors and machines. In his address, industries minister Amir Hossain Amu said that the government would take steps to develop a more advanced industrial sector to sustain industrialisation.

He requested the Swedish companies to share knowledge about smart manufacturing with local entrepreneurs and provide best possible technologies and solutions for Bangladeshi industries.

‘Bangladesh will make smart choices that guarantee workers’ safety, high productivity, minimum effect on environment and maximum return for investors,’ he said.

Swedish ambassador to Bangladesh Johan Frisell said that industries were moving out of China and looking for new destinations and Bangladesh could be one of the attractive destinations through adopting the smart manufacturing system.

Lihui Wang, professor and chairman at Sustainable Manufacturing at KTH Royal Institute of Technology and Lisa Tullus, Business Sweden representative, among others, spoke at the seminar while representatives of Swedish companies H&M, ABB, Tetra Pak, Alfa Laval also made separate presentations on the subject.