2016-07-05 00:00:00+06:00
Meals of memory
VERMICELLI KHEER (DUDH SEMAI)



Ingredients



½ litre liquid milk (to be reduced from 1 litre through boiling)



200g powder milk



1 handful of vermicelli



1 ½ cups sugar, 3 pieces cardamom



10-12 raisins, 10-15 pcs almonds



10-15 pcs pistachios

Method



Dry roast the vermicelli on medium heat till it turns light golden in colour, stirring continuously. Once done, remove it to a plate.

Boil liquid milk and reduce it to half. Then add vermicelli, sugar, and cardamom while stirring continuously.

Blend powder milk in 3 cups of cold water and boil the milk, then pour it into vermicelli mixture, stirring continuously until it becomes thick. Add some raisins, almonds and pistachios into vermicelli mixture. Then pour it into a bowl and garnish with slice almonds and pistachios. Let it cool before refrigerating. Serve cold.

SPICY VERMICELLI



Ingredients



2 cups vermicelli



½ tsp ajwain, 1/4tsp turmeric powder



½ tsp chilli powder



1/4tsp garam masala powder



1 onion, finely chopped



2 green chilli, finely chopped



1 capsicum, chopped



1 cup carrots and peas, chopped



2tbsp oil, 1 cup milk



2 cups water



Salt to taste



Coriander leaves for garnish

Method



Dry roast the vermicelli on medium heat till it turns light golden in colour, stirring continuously. Once done remove it to a plate.

Heat a pan, add oil on medium heat. Once hot, add ajwain and cook for 15 seconds. Add green chilli and sauté for 30 seconds. Add onions, cook for 2-3 minutes.

Then add carrots, peas and capsicum. Mix well. Cover and let them cook for 2-3 minutes.

Add turmeric powder, red chilli powder, garam masala powder and mix well. Add roasted vermicelli and mix.

Add milk, water and salt. Mix well. Let the water come to a boil.

Once it is boiling, cover the pan and lower the heat. Cook for 8-10 minutes.

Now switch off the heat and allow it to sit, covered for another 5 to 6 minutes. Open and fluff it gently. Garnish with coriander leaves. Delicious spicy vermicelli is ready to serve.

Photo: Sazzad Ibne Sayed



Food styling: RBR



Food prepared by: Syeda Nafisa Ahmad