2016-08-09 00:00:00+06:00
The Chinese flavour in your kitchen
Chicken chow mein



Ingredients



1 pound refrigerated chow mein noodles or 8 ounces dry thin spaghetti



5 tbsp low-sodium soy sauce



1 tbsp oyster sauce (or more if needed)



2 tsp granulated sugar



2 tbsp vegetable oil



1 pound chicken, sliced into ½-inch thin strips



1 cup (2 stalks) celery, thinly sliced



3 cups cabbage, thinly sliced



1½ cups matchstick carrots



4 green onions, chopped



1½ tsp ginger, minced



2 cloves garlic, minced







Method



Prepare noodles according to directions on package. In a bowl, whisk together soy sauce, oyster sauce, sugar, and oil, and set aside. Heat vegetable oil in a wok or large and deep nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add chicken and celery, and cook until chicken is halfway cooked through, about 4 minutes (outsides should be white).



Add cabbage, carrots, green onions, and ginger, and sauté until veggies are tender and chicken is cooked through, for about 4 minutes, adding in garlic during the last minute of cooking.



Toss in pasta, pour in the soy sauce mixture and toss to coat. Serve warm.

Garlic prawns



Ingredients



4 tbsp oil, 4 tbsp butter



8 cloves of garlic, finely chopped



½ tsp dried chilli flakes



24 medium prawns, peeled but with tails intact



2 tsp flat leaf parsley, chopped



Sea salt flakes







Method



Heat four small pans on medium heat. Divide the oil, butter, garlic and chilli flakes between the pans and cook for 1 minute or until the butter melts. Reduce the heat to low.



Divide prawns, parsley and a little salt between pans and cook for 1–2 minutes each side or until the prawns are cooked through. Serve in pans with slices of crusty fresh bread or baguette. Serves 4.

Chilli garlic lemon prawns



Ingredients



60ml (¼ cup) oil



1 clove garlic



1 long red chilli, 1 lemon



250g (½ pound) prawns, peeled and cleaned and with intact tails



Sea salt flakes and freshly ground black pepper

Method



Start with a cold, heavy based pan. Pour in oil and add the clove of garlic, sliced thinly, and the chilli, deseeded if desired, sliced thinly. Put the pan over low heat and let everything warm through until the fragrance rises, about 5 minutes.

Meanwhile, season the prawns lightly with salt and pepper. Take the zest off the lemon with a zester or small, sharp knife and set aside.

Turn the heat up to medium. Cook the prawns for a minute a side. Stir in the lemon zest and serve immediately.

Lemon sorbet



Ingredients



427ml water



2 cups sugar



8 large lemons (juice/rind)

Method



Dissolve the sugar in a saucepan of water over medium heat. Put to one side and leave to cool.

Juice the lemons, and grate the rind from two of those.

Add the lemon juice and rind to the saucepan and stir well. Add your saucepan ingredients to your ice cream maker and allow it to do its magic for 30 minutes.

Place in ice cream tubs and freeze for 2 hours. The sorbet is ready to serve.

By Elora Hossain



Photo: Collected