2016-08-09 00:00:00+06:00
From a different kitchen
Chicken curry in a bamboo pipe



A piece of bamboo with a knot on one side is needed for cooking.



Ingredients



1 kg medium sized chicken, sliced



2 large onions (paste)



1 tbsp ginger paste, 1 tbsp garlic paste



7-8 green chillies, turned into paste



½ tsp turmeric powder



1 tsp cumin seed powder



1 tsp coriander powder



3 tbsp soya bean or mustard oil



Fuji leaves (a kind of indigenous herb) to add taste



Salt to taste







Method



Mix all ingredients well and marinate for half an hour. Then put the marinated ingredients into the bamboo pipe. Close the open side of the bamboo with bamboo leaves and put the pipe aligning on the gas burner. The bamboo needs to be moved upside down every 5-7 minutes so that the chicken inside is cooked well. After 40-50 minutes, the chicken will be ready to serve.

Beef curry in a bamboo pipe



For 1 kg small sliced beef, the same ingredients will be needed, except for green chilli paste and Fuji leaves. Instead of Fuji leaves, whole garam masala (cinnamon, cloves, cardamom to taste) will be necessary and red chilli flakes (1 tablespoon) will be used for beef. The same procedure needs to be followed.









BHACHCHURI BHAJA (BAMBOO SHOOT FRY)



Ingredients



½ kg cleaned bamboo shoots



2 large onions (chopped)



2 tsp shrimp paste



2 tsp green chilli paste



A pinch of turmeric powder



Salt to taste



2 tbsp soya bean oil

Method



Heat the oil in a frying pan over medium flame. Put the chopped onion and shallow fry for 3-5 minutes. Then add the green chilli paste, shrimp paste, turmeric, salt and a little water. Stir for 3-5 minutes, add the bamboo shoot. Fry it until it turns light brown.

Shumi taba (boiled snake beans)



Ingredients



250g snake beans



Cleaned dry shrimp (a handful)



5-6 sliced green chilli



A little bit turmeric powder



5-6 cloves garlic



Salt to taste



200ml water



Method



Put the water in a frying pan, then add dry shrimp, sliced green chilli, turmeric powder and salt and then set to boil. When the water is boiling, snake beans have to be put in. After stirring, put the lid over the pan for 5-6 minutes. Crush the garlic cloves and add it to the curry. Cook for 1 more minute. It must not be over cooked and it has to look green. Coriander leaves can also be used along with garlic.

Tidagulo Taba (boiled bitter melon)



The same ingredients will be needed, only bitter melon to replace snake beans. The procedure also remains the same.

By Basanti Chakma and



Purabi Khisa Tandra



Photo: Sazzad Ibne Sayed



Food prepared by Basanti Chakma