2016-09-06 00:00:00+06:00
Recipes of Mutton Boti Kabab, Bhuna Gosht, Kaju Barfi, Sikandari Raan
MUTTON BOTI KABAB



Ingredients:



1kg mutton, cut into cubes



1 ½ tbsp ginger paste



1 ½ tbsp garlic paste



3 tbsp raw papaya paste



1 tsp black cumin



1 tsp black pepper powder



1 tbsp kachri powder



1 tsp kalpasi powder



1 tbsp kabab chini powder



1 tbsp rose petal powder



1 tsp red chilli powder



3 tbsp hung curd



1 ½ tsp garam masala



½ tsp green cardamom powder



1 tsp coriander powder



2 tsp poppy seed paste (boiled and ground)



2 tbsp coriander and mint leaves



1 tsp green chillies



Ghee



Salt to taste

Method



In a thick bottomed dish, marinate the mutton cubes with the garam masala, salt, red chilli paste, ginger and garlic paste, and mix well together.

Add the rest of the dry masalas and raw papaya paste and mix again. Then add the curd and continue mixing. Now add the coriander, green chillies and mint leaves, and leave to marinate for at least 1 hour.

Now cook the marinated mutton cubes on low heat for about 20-30 minutes.

Put the cubes on a skewer and pan grill them with a bit of ghee for 6 -7 minutes. Serve hot with onion rings and mint chutney.

BHUNA GOSHT







Ingredients:



1/4 cup cooking oil



3 pods green cardamom



1 pod black cardamom



2 bay leaves



1 cinnamon stick



6 large onions, sliced thin



6 cloves garlic



1 (1/2 inch) piece fresh ginger root, peeled and julienned



2 tsp Kashmiri red chili powder



1 tsp ground cumin



1/2 tsp ground turmeric



salt, to taste



2 tomatoes, pureed



2 pounds lamb chops, rinsed and patted dry



2 tbsps water



3 green chili peppers, halved lengthwise



1/4 cup cilantro leaves, for garnish

Method



Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Fry the green cardamom pods, black cardamom pods, bay leaves, and cinnamon stick in the hot oil until they release aroma. Stir in the onions, garlic, and ginger into the mixture. Reduce heat to low and continue cooking until the onions are golden brown; season with the red chilli powder, turmeric, cumin, and salt. Add the tomatoes and continue cooking until the oil separates from the gravy, about 5 minutes more.

Place the lamb chops into the mixture in the skillet and increase heat to medium-low. Cook and stir until the lamb is cooked about halfway through and the sauce has created a glaze on the outside of the meat, for about 20 minutes. Sprinkle the water over the mixture. Cover and cook until the lamb is tender, for 15 to 20 minutes more. Remove the cover and add the green chilli peppers and cilantro leaves. Increase the heat to high and cook for another 3 to 5 minutes. Serve hot.

SIKANDARI RAAN



(Mutton Leg Roasted the Sikandari Style)



Sikandari Raan is a historical dish. The history of this dish traces back to the time when Alexander the Great defeated Porus asked him how he wished to be treated. Porus said he wished to be treated like a king. Alexander then got a special banquet prepared, where this raan is believed to have been served. And Alexander was popularly known as Sikandar (the conqueror) hence this dish's name. I have used a different technique for cooking this raan though. I wrapped the raan in rotis and cooked it in a bbq grill for 2 hours. And the end result was soft falling-off-the-bone spicy meat.



Prep time 6 hrs



Cooking time 2 hrs







Ingredients:



1 mutton leg



5 tbsp ginger and garlic paste



200 ml yogurt-



1 tsp chilli powder



2 tsp Kashmiri chilli powder



1 tsp cardamom powder



2 tsp fennel powder



1 tsp mace powder



2 tbsp garam masala



1 tsp cumin powder



1 tbsp coriander powder



1 tsp turmeric powder



200 ml mustard oil



2 tsp rose water



2 tsp dried fenurgreek leaves (kasoori methi)



1 lemon



8 uncooked chapatis

Method



Marinate the lamb in a mixture of ginger and garlic paste, salt, chilli powder and lemon juice for 2 hours. Add the spice powders and yogurt to the leg of lamb after 2 hours.

Marinate the lamb in all the spice powders and yogurt for 6 hours, or preferably overnight.

Heat the bbq grill and prep it for cooking. Add rose water to the marinated lamb and baste it with a little oil.

Wrap the leg in uncooked chapatis, using as many as you need to cover up the leg fully. The chapatis will cook with the meat.

Take a clean cotton cloth and wrap the raan along with the chapati in the cloth. Do three rounds of wrapping with the cloth.

Cook over bbq grill for 2 hours. When its cooked you can discard the cloth. The chapatis would be a bit burnt, but they would have absorbed the fat from the leg and you can have the roti used for covering with the tender mutton chunks.

Serve with some chilled buttermilk and side salad because this dish is super spicy.

KAJU BARFI RECIPE



Preparation Time: 15 mins



Cooking Time: 10 mins



Makes 20 servings







Ingredients:



1 cup broken cashew nuts



½ cup sugar



½ tsp cardamom powder



melted ghee for greasing

Method



Pour cashew nuts in a blender to make a fine powder, and keep aside.

Combine the sugar and ¼ cup of water in a broad non-stick pan and cook on a medium flame for 3 minutes, while stirring occasionally. Add the cashew powder and mix well, and continue to cook on a medium flame for about 2 minutes, while stirring continuously. Add the cardamom powder and mix well.

Now grease a 125 mm or 5” diameter plate with a little molten ghee, and transfer the mixture on it, an spread evenly with the help of a spatula.

Allow the mixture to cool for 2 to 3 minutes, and then cut diagonally to make 8 equal-sized diamond shaped pieces. Serve immediately or store in an air-tight container.

Recipes by Sheikh Furkan, Masterchef of Khazana



Photo: Sazzad Ibne Sayed



Food prepared by Khazana