2016-10-11 00:00:00+06:00
Cooking shrimp made easy
PRAWNS FRIED WITH OKRA



Ingredients



700g prawns



450g fresh okra



2 medium onions



2 small green chillies



1 garlic clove (optional)



3 medium-ripe juicy tomatoes



3 tbsp ghee or vegetable oil



2 tsp ground cumin



1 tbsp mustard seeds



Salt and pepper



Squeeze of lemon juice, to taste



2 tsp garam masala



3 tbsp coarsely grated fresh coconut or desiccated coconut, toasted if preferred

Method



Devein prawns. Using a small sharp knife, make a shallow slit along the outer curve from the tail end to the head end. Rinse prawns under cold running water. Drain and pat dry with kitchen paper.

Now wash and trim the okra. Peel onions and cut into thin rings. Slice chillies, discarding the seeds if a milderflavour is preferred.

Peel and slice garlic, if being used. Cut tomatoes into small wedges. Heat ghee or oil in a wok or large, heavy-based frying pan. Add the onions and cook over a high heat until browned. Add the okra, the prawns, the chillies, the garlic (if using) and cumin and mustard seeds.

Cook over in high heat, shaking the pan constantly, for 5 minutes or until the prawns are bright pink and the okra is softened but not soggy. Add the tomato wedges, and salt and pepper to taste. Cook for 1-2 minutes to heat through; the tomatoes should retain their shapes. Add a little lemon juice, to taste. Turn the mixture into a serving dish and sprinkle with the garam masala and coconut. Serve immediately.

PRAWNS WITH SPINACH



Ingredients



700g large raw prawns



1 medium onion



1 garlic clove



2 tsp fresh ginger



450g spinach leaves



2 tbsp ghee or oil



2 tsp ground turmeric



1 tsp chilli powder



1 tbsp black mustard seeds



2 tsp ground coriander



Large pinch of ground cloves



300ml coconut milk



Salt to taste



1 tbsp lime or lemon juice

Method



Devein prawns. Rinse the prawns under cold running water. Drain and pat dry with kitchen paper. Peel and slice onions. Peel and chop garlic. Peel ginger and cut into thin strips. Trim spinach leaves and wash thoroughly in several changes of water, if necessary; drain well.

Heat ghee or oil in a wok. Add the onion, the garlic and the ginger and fry - stirring, until softened. Add spices and cook for 2 minutes, stirring all the time. Add coconut milk, bring to the boil, then lower the heat and simmer for 5 minutes.

Add the prawns and simmer for about 4 minutes or until they just begin to look opaque. Add the spinach; it may be difficult to fit it all but do not worry it will reduce down as it cooks in the steam.

Cover pan with a lid or a baking tray and cook for about 3 minutes or until the spinach is wilted; donot remove the lid frequently as it will allow the steam to escape. Stir welted spinach into the sauce and add lime or lemon juice. Serve immediately.

FISH MASALA



Ingredients



5 large juicy tomatoes



1 medium onion



2 garlic cloves



1-2 hot green chillies



1 tbsp fresh ginger



4 tbsp chopped fresh coriander



Juice of 2 limes



1 tbsp coriander seeds



1 tsp fenugreek seeds



1 tsp ground turmeric



2 tbsp oil, 1 tbsp garam masala



Salt to taste



4 white fish steaks, such as cod, haddock, and halibut, 2 tbsp plain flour, for coating



Oil for shallow-frying

Method



Immerse tomatoes in boiling water for 30 seconds, then drain and peel away skins. Finely chop the tomatoes. Peel and quarter the onion. Peel garlic. Halve the chillies, discarding seeds if a milder flavour is preferred. Peel and halve the ginger.

Put the onion, the garlic, the chillies, the ginger, the chopped coriander and lime juice in a blender or food processor and process to make a fairly thick paste. Crush the coriander and fenugreek seeds usinga pestle and mortar, then add to the spice paste with turmeric and mix well. Heat oil in a large frying pan. Add spice paste and cook, stirring constantly, for about 5 minutes.

Stir in the chopped tomatoes, garam masala and salt to taste. Cook for about 5 minutes or until the tomatoes have broken down and their liquid, evaporated. Coat fish steaks with flour. Heat oil in another frying pan. Add the fish steaks and quickly brown on both sides. Transfer the fish steaks to the frying pan containing the sauce, arranging them in a single layer. Spoon a little of the sauce over each fish steak and cover the pan with a lid or a baking sheet. Simmer gently for about 8-10 minutes, depending on the thickness of the fish, until the fish is cooked right through. Serve at once, with plenty of boiled rice to mop up the sauce.

Photo courtesy: Elora Hossain