2016-11-24 18:35:11+06:00
Straight from kitchen: Finger-Licking feasts at 3 Dragons at Pearl
3 Dragons at Pearl Prawns with Tikuan Tea Leaves

Created from a few simple ingredients, this visually alluring dish provides an explosion of tastes and textures, leaving one’s palate with the lingering fragrance of green tea and crunchy texture of the prawns.

Ingredients

8-10 large prawns (shelled & deveined)

15gm Fresh Tikuan Yin or Green Jasmine Tea leaves

1 large onion (diced)

½ green and ½ red Capsicum (diced)

1 green chili (finely chopped)

2 stalks of spring onion (chopped into 1/2cm pieces)

15 gm sesame seeds

Sesame oil

Ginger, garlic, salt and ground pepper

Vegetable Oil

All purpose flour

Procedure (Preparation)

Marinate the prawns with 4 tablespoons of ginger juice and 1 teaspoon of salt for 10 minutes. Then dry off excess liquid and toss in flour and a little ground pepper. Deep fry until golden and crispy. Boil 1 liter of water in a pot, take off the heat and steep the fresh green tea leaves for 5 minutes and then drain. Dry on a paper towel. Proceed to deep fry the tea leaves for 1 to 2 minutes, drain off the oil and set it aside.

Procedure (Cooking, 10 mins)

Begin cooking by heating 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil in a large pan or Chinese Wok, on medium heat. Sautee the onions, capsicum and green chili for 2-3 minutes. Add the fried prawns and tea leaves and toss together. Add the spring onions and cook for 1 minute. To this mixture of prawns and tea leaves, add 2 teaspoons each of sesame oil, sesame seeds, spring onions and toss together on high heat for 30 seconds. Add salt to taste. Take off the heat and serve immediately.

3 Dragons Sichuan Fried Crab

Made with live wild mud crabs soured directly from the Sunderbans and delivered to Dhaka on a daily basis, the freshness of this dish is hard to beat.

Ingredients

1 live 450-500gm Brown Crab (cut into 6 pieces)

1 large potato (cut into thin French fries)

100gm of dry red chilies (chopped into 1 cm pieces)

10gm Sichuan Pepper corns

4 tbsp Sichuan Broad bean paste

Sesame oil

5gm Sesame seeds

2 stalks of Spring Onion (cut into 2cm pieces)

Garlic, ginger, 50 gm All-purpose flour, salt, Ground white pepper and Fresh Coriander leaves

Procedure (Preparation, 15 mins)

Marinate the crab with ginger juice for 15 minutes. Drain off excess water, toss in flour, salt and ground pepper and mix them together. Set aside.

Procedure (Cooking, 10 mins)

Deep fry the marinated crab at 220 C and do the same for the French fries for 5 minutes; drain the oil and set aside. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil, add 4 tablespoon of Sichuan Broad bean paste to it and leave for 2 minutes; then add the dry chilies and Sichuan pepper corns and cook for 30 seconds. Add the pre-fried crab and French fries and toss together for 2 more minutes. Add salt to taste, then add the sesame seeds, spring onions, 1 teaspoon of sesame oil and fry for a further 2 minutes. Take off the heat and serve immediately, garnished with chopped fresh coriander.