2016-12-08 18:45:19+06:00
True Taste of China at Huang Ho
Fried Bananas with ice cream

This recipe was prepared by Jewel Rozari, Chef de partie, Huang Ho, Platinum Suites.

Ingredients

3/4 cup white rice flour

1/4 cup tapioca flour

2 tbsp white sugar

1 tsp salt

1 and1/4 cups water

10 bananas

3 cups oil, for frying

Vanilla ice-cream for serving

Procedure

In a medium bowl, mix rice flour, tapioca, sugar and salt. Stir in water, a little at a time, and mix to form a thick batter.

Peel the bananas and cut each lengthwise into 3 or 4 pieces. Heat oil in deep-fryer or deep wok to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C).

Completely coat each banana slice in batter and then proceed to fry in hot oil until golden. Drain on paper towels. Serve at once with vanilla ice cream.

Pineapple fried rice

This recipe was prepared by Leng Chen, Head Chef, Huang Ho, Platinum Suites.

Ingredients

2 eggs

1 small onion, chopped

1 tsp canola oil

3 garlic cloves, minced

3 cups cooked instant brown rice

1 can (20 ounces) unsweetened pineapple chunks, drained

1/2 pound cooked medium shrimp, peeled and deveined

1/2 cup chopped cashews

1/2 cup frozen peas, thawed

2 green onions, sliced

3 tbsp reduced-sodium soy sauce

1 tbsp hoisin sauce

1 tsp sugar

1 tsp sesame oil

1/4 tsp pepper

Procedure

In a small bowl, whisk eggs. Heat a large nonstick skillet coated with cooking spray over medium heat. Add eggs. Cook and stir until set; remove from the skillet and keep warm.

In the same skillet, saute onion in oil until tender. Add garlic; cook for around a minute. Stir in the rice, pineapple, shrimp, cashews, peas and green onions; heat through. Combine the soy sauce, hoisin sauce, sugar, sesame oil and pepper; stir into rice mixture. Stir in the eggs.

Szechuan Style Stir-Fried Cauliflower

This recipe was prepared by Wengao Li, Sous chef, Huang Ho, Platinum Suites.

Ingredients

1 small head (400 grams / 14 ounces) cauliflower

1 and ½ tbsp peanut oil (or vegetable oil)

1 tsp whole Sichuan peppercorn

4 cloves garlic, sliced

1 large piece ginger, sliced into strips

5 dried chili peppers

1 tbsp light soy sauce

1 tsp sugar

¼ tsp salt

Procedure

Cut cauliflower into bite-sized florets and rinse with tap water. Drain and set aside. Heat 1 tbsp of oil in a wok over medium high heat until hot. Add cauliflower. Stir and cook until the cauliflower is charred on the surface and almost cooked through, in about 4 minutes. If the wok gets too hot, turn to medium heat. You should hear a vibrant sizzling during the cooking, but be careful not to burn the cauliflower. Transfer cauliflower to a plate. Add the remaining ½ tablespoon of oil into the same wok and turn to low heat. Add Sichuan peppercorn. Stir and cook until fragrant and until the peppercorn turns dark brown, in about 1 minute. Scoop out the peppercorns and discard them. Add garlic, ginger, and dried chili peppers into the wok (for extra spiciness, break the chili peppers apart by hand before adding them). Stir a few times until fragrant.

Add cauliflower back into the wok and turn to medium high heat (or high heat for electric stove). Swirl in light soy sauce and sprinkle the sugar and salt over the cauliflower. Stir to mix well, for about 30 seconds. Turn to lowest heat. Taste the cauliflower (be careful, it’s hot) and adjust the seasoning as needed, by adding a bit more salt, and mix well again. Transfer to a plate and serve warm as a side dish.