2016-12-09 00:00:00+06:00
Straight from Kitchen (Sponsored) Episode 12: Premium Sweets
Premium Beef Kalo Bhuna

The Lobster Thermidor is a favoured French delicacy consisting of a creamy mixture of cooked lobster meat and cheese, stuffed into a lobster shell. The sauce used for the dish generally must always contain mustard.

Ingredients

2 kgs boneless beef, cube cut

300 gms mustard oil, around a cup

300 gms onion, nicely sliced

150 gms ginger, pested

150 gms garlic, pested

150 gms nut, pested

2 tsp garam masala, finely grounded

4 tsp chili powder

1tbsp turmeric powder

4 cups of water

4 tsp of soya sauce

2 tsp of crushed black pepper

2 tsp chili sauce

2 tsp milk powder

2 tsp ghee







Procedure

Firstly, marinate the beef with the ingredients in the first ten ingredients. After marinating them for a while, place the meat in a large pan over medium heat.

Wait till the water become half then stir again and again till the meat becomes tender and the masala gets dry.

Then start mixing rest of the ingredients with the meat. After a while beef dry up and take a dark black hue. Put out the heat and cover the pan for at least 5 minute.

Finally, in a separate pan heat up the mustard oil slightly, add some onion and keep on heating till it turns golden brown. Add the cooked beef with the fried onion and mustard oil and heat it up for a bit again. Keep it pan covered for another 5 minutes in low heat.

Now your dish is ready to be served.

Premium Achari Khichuri

Ingredients:

2 cups of rice

¼ cup of red lentils

¼ cup of yellow lentils

¼ cup of onion, thinly sliced

½ tsp garlic, pested

½ tsp ginger pested

2 cloves of garlic -

1 tsp of chili powder

1 tsp of turmeric powder

1 tsp cumin powder

1 tsp of garam masala

2 tsp of pach foron

2 tsp red chili

2 tps of mango pickle

1 tsp salt

4 cup of warm water

4tsp of mustard oil

Ghee, according to taste

Procedure:

At first, mix the rice and 2 types of lentils in a bowl. Rinse them properly with water.In a cooking pot take all the rice and lentils mix. Add onion, garlic and rest of the top 11 spices with the mix. Add 2 Tablespoons of mustard oil and sprinkle a bit of salt. Mix everything very well and keep it for 15 minutes. Add 2 cups of warm water to the mix.

Now start cooking in high flame till water boils. When the mix starts boiling properly, cover the pan, keep the flame very low for 15 to 20 minutes till the rice and lentils becomes chewy.

In a separate frying pan heat 1 tsp mustard oil in medium flame. Add pach foron and fry it a little more. Then add red chili, whole garlic & mango pickle. Sauté for 40 seconds. Add the rice and lentils mixture in the hot oil. Mix it nicely, with the pan covered on low heat.

After 5 minutes turn off the heat and let it rest for 2 minutes. Serve it with hot Kalo Bhuna!