2016-12-09 00:00:00+06:00
Straight From Kitchen: Exquisite Flavours of American Chinese
Mongolian Beef

Ingredients:

450 gm beef undercut, cut diagonally into 6mm- thick slice

10 gm vegetable oil

15 gm finely chopped garlic

120 soy sauce

75 ml water

75 gm brown sugar

30gm cornstarch

235 ml vegetable oil for frying

2 bunches of green onions, cut in 50 mm length

Procedure:

Heat 10ml of vegetable oil in a saucepan over medium heat, and stir the garlic and ginger until they release their fragrance, about 30 seconds.

Pour in the soy sauce, water, and brown sugar. Raise the heat to medium-high, and stir for four minutes, until the sugar has dissolved and the sauce boils and slightly thickens. Remove sauce from the heat, and set aside.

Place the sliced beef into a bowl, and stir the cornstarch into the beef, coating it thoroughly. Allow the beef and cornstarch to sit until most of the juices from the meat have been absorbed by the cornstarch, about 10 minutes.

Heat the vegetable oil in a deep-sided skillet or wok to 190 degrees Celsius.

Next shake excess cornstarch from the beef slices, and drop them into the hot oil, a few at a time. Stir briefly, and fry until the edges become crisp and start to brown, about 2 minutes. Remove the beef from the oil with a large slotted spoon, and allow to drain on paper towels to remove excess oil.

Pour the oil out of the skillet or wok, and return the pan to medium heat. Return the beef slices to the pan, stir briefly, and pour in the reserved sauce. Stir once or twice to combine, and add the green onions.

Finally bring the mixture to a boil, and cook until the onions have softened and turned bright green, about 2 minutes.

Mushroom & Ginger fish

Ingredients:

45 ml vegetable oil

3 cloves minced garlic

70 mm long fresh ginger root, cut into thin strips

2-3 shitake mushrooms, stems discarded and caps cut into thin strips

2-3 button mushrooms

59 ml chicken stock

180 gm white fish, cut into thin slices

10 ml fish sauce

4.25 gm sugar

26 gm cornflour

1 egg

2 gm freshly ground white pepper

1-2 finely chopped finger-length chilies,

Procedure

In a mixing bowl mix half of the garlic, chili and the rest of the seasoning. Apply a coating of cornflour and egg to all surfaces of the fish slices and fry theslices until they turn nice golden brown.

Heat oil in wok and stir fry garlic, ginger, and mushrooms for about 2-3 minutes, until they release their fragnance.

Afterwards add sauce to the fried fish.

Transfer the fish to a serving plate, garnish with spring onion and cilantro leaves and serve hot.