2016-12-29 00:00:00+06:00
Straight From Kitchen
The recipes have been prepared by Jed Gareth Archdeacon, Executive Chef of Sublime, Radisson Blu Dhaka Water Garden, Dhaka.

Chilled Tomato Consommé

Consommé

1kg of vine ripened Tomatoes (950gm for soup) 50gm small diced for garnish

500gm Red Local Onions (450gm for soup) 50gm small dice for garnish for garnish

1 Tbsp Black Pepper Corns

1 Tbsp Coriander Seed

6 Star anise

1 bunch of basil stalks

1 gm salt

2 Tbsp of baby basil leaves (for garnish)

200ml of water.

20gm dry ice.

Granita

200ml Lime juice

180gm sugar

2 sticks of lemongrass

Procedure:

Consommé

Roughly Chop the tomato, onions then add the remaining ingredients to a large metal bowl, cover the bowl tightly with plastic wrap.

Next, place a medium size pot on the stove and half fill it with water, then bring to the boil. Place the covered bowl of tomatoes on top. Leave to sit over the boiling water for 40 minutes.

Finally, after 40 minutes remove and carefully pour the liquid through a fine cloth, be careful not to mix the consommé otherwise it will become cloudy. Place into a container then put into the chiller until cold.

Granita

Firstly, place all ingredients into a saucepan and boil it. Slowly reduce the heat and gently simmer for 15 minutes.

Strain out the lemongrass and then pour the mixture into a shallow tray and freeze until solid.

Next, dice the leftover tomato, cucumber and onion into the bottom of the bowl; fork the frozen granite until it forms small crystals.

Finally to impress your friends, pour the chilled soup from a tea pot over the top of the bowl and serve!

Seared Lime Scented Salmon

Ingredients:

Leek Fondue

400gm white leeks (finely sliced)

500gm unsalted butter (cut into cubes)

500ml Olive Oil

300ml Cooking Cream

20ml Truffle oil

Teaspoon White Pepper

½ teaspoon of salt

Sauce Vierge

400gm tomato (blanched, skinned and seeds removed, fine dice.)

100gm red onion

1tbsp chopped coriander

1tbsp coriander seed (roasted and crushed.)

1 tbsp red vinegar

2 tbsp extra virgin olive oil

2 drops lime juice

Coriander Sauce

500gm Coriander (blanched and chopped.)

50gm ginger chopped

Light soy sauce

Sesame oil

Sugar

Salmon

2 tbsp lime zest

2tbsp salt

4 Skin on Salmon Fillets 200gm per portion

200gm calamari

White pepper to season.

Garnish

Baby Basil (picked)

Baby mint (picked)

Procedure:

To prepare the fondue, add the butter and olive oil to the pan until melted and lightly bubbling, then add the leeks and cook on low heat until soft (approx 8 minutes.)

At this stage the fat will split out from the leeks and raise to the surface, then add the cooking cream slowly until the cream binds the fat back to the leeks, add the truffle oil and seasoning to the mix.

To prepare the sauce vierge, mix all ingredients together, add the seasoning just before serving otherwise it will soften the tomatoes.

Prepping the coriander sauce might seem a bit tricky but it isn’t. All you need to do is blanch the coriander, then place in ice water then strain out.

Place the coriander and ginger with 100ml of water in the blender and blend until smooth.

Strain mix through a fine strainer and place into a sauce pan and simmer until reduced by half, then season the mix with the sugar, soy and sesame oil.

Next, scratch the lime or local lemon skin to extract the green part, mix with the table salt. Gently oil the salmon fillet and season with the lime skin, rubbing the salt and lime into the skin. Shave the calamari with a sharp knife, toss in olive oil and seasoning.

Place a heavy based frying pan on the high heat and add olive oil.

Once the pan is hot place the salmon is skin side down and seal until crispy.

Turn the heat down to low and continue to cook until salmon is ¾ cooked then flip over, add butter and finished cooking. Remove the salmon from the pan and place onto paper towel to absorb the fat.

Finally, place the leek fondue onto the middle of the plate and place the salmon on the top. Pour the coriander sauce and place gently the sauce vierge after that. Sautee the shaved calamari on very high heat and place on paper towel to drain the oil. Place the calamari on top of the salmon skin and place the picked herbs around the salmon.