2017-01-22 00:00:00+06:00
The Seafood Serenade
These recipes have been prepared by Md. Kabir Hossain, Executive Chef, Fish & Co.

Ingredients

For Preparation:

110gm Dory

30 gm Spiced flour

4 pcs Prawn

0.5 tsp Original Spice

200 gm Calamari

1 tsp Black Spice

15 ml Olive oil

To taste

15 ml Soya bean oil

1 gm Dry parsley

To Serve

110 gm Dory (cooked)

4 pcs Prawn (cooked)

140 g Calamari (cooked)

10 ml Lemon Butter Sauce

1 pc Lemon Wedge

200 g Rice

120 g Chips

Procedure

Place portioned calamari in a mixing bowl; ensure it is "dry". Coat with Black Spice and remove any lumps. Season with salt and lastly drizzle olive oil over the calamari. Drizzle oil on grill before grilling and ensure that the calamari is spread out and not lumped together (approx. 2 mins each side). Remove the dory from the chiller; ensure that it is dry and fresh. Place in the Spiced Flour and cover completely with the Spiced Flour. Tap and shake off any excess.

Drizzle oil on the grill; place fish on grill. While waiting for the fish to cook, turn the calamari over. The edges of the calamari should be blackened. Transfer the calamari onto a tray; drizzle with olive oil. Bake in the oven at 180°C for approximately 1 minute.

Drizzle oil on the grill. Collect prawns from chiller on a plate. Place the meat on the grill in butterfly manner for 1 minute. Ensure the heads of the prawns are not black. Turn the fish to cook further. Insert temperature probe and ensure internal temperature is above 63’C for at least 15 seconds.

Turn prawns and place in a straight row; season with original spice evenly. Ensure that the prawns are facing the same direction; drizzle oil lightly over the prawns’ head and cover with a lid. Remove the calamari and bake at 180°C in the oven for 1 minute. (Check internal temperature; ensure internal temperature is above 63°C for at least 15sec.)

Place the entire cooked items together in a presentation pan and serve with rice and chips. Pour the lemon butter sauce on the cooked dory, calamari and prawns. Garnish with lemon wedges and dry chopped parsley.

Grilled Salmon Mediterranean style

Ingredients

For preparation

240 gm Raw Salmon

0.5 tsp Fish spice

15 ml Olive oil

15 ml Soya bean oil

1 g dry parsley

To serve

240 gm Salmon (Cooked)

15ml Lemon Butter Sauce

120 gm Coleslaw

120 gm Seasonal vegetables

Procedure

Remove the salmon from the chiller. Ensure the salmon is dry and fresh. Sprinkle the Fish spice on top of the salmon, ensuring it is evenly spread. Oil the grill lightly (minimum oil needed) and place the fish on the grill. Grill all sides of the salmon for about 1 minute for each side. Insert temperature probe and ensure the internal temperature of the fish is above 58°C for at least 15 seconds. Remove from the grill. Place the fish in the presentation pan and serve with coleslaw and vegetable. Pour the Lemon Butter Sauce over the center of the fish. Garnish with dried chopped parsley and serve immediately.